THINK SO AT FOUR
O'CLOCK I'D LIKE TO CALL THIS
MEETING TO ORDER.
THIS IS THE ANAMBRA COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES MEETING
TODAY JUST SO ALL OF YOU KNOW,
THIS MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST
LIVE ON CABLE CHANNEL 16 AND
AT&T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT EIGHT TO GO AGAIN
WATCH CTM IF ANYBODY WANTS TO
SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT PLEASE
CALL THE TOLL FREE NUMBER
OF EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN OR
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE ONE NINE
EIGHT SIX SEVEN THREE ONE FOUR
FIVE FIVE.
WITH THAT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON
TO ROLL CALL SO IF ALL OF YOU
COULD LISTEN UP FOR YOUR NAME
AND THEN PLEASE TELL KENNEDY
WHERE YOU ARE ZOOMING IN FROM
TODAY THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
>> KENNEDY READY ROLL CHAIR
DAMON OH HELLO.
YES EVERYONE MY NAME IS DAMON.
I'M COMING TO YOU FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
I'M CHAIRMAN AND I'M IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
>> VICE CHAIR KEILLER VICE
CHAIR KEILLER COMING TO YOU
FROM ANOTHER WARD FIVE AND THE
COMFORT OF MY COUCH
COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ.
YES, HELLO.
I'M COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN
MOSADDEQ CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN TO SOLOMON
SOLOMON COMMISSIONER ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS,
COMMISSIONER POSTEN,
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE, ALEX
GOSSAGE, COMMISSIONER IN
MICHIGAN COMMISSIONER RADCLYFFE
COMMISSIONER RESONATORS
RATCLIFFE CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
COMMISSIONER PACARD
COMMISSIONER FORD CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
COMMISSIONER CHAMBERS MARILYN
CHAMBERS CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> COMMISSIONER BOYCE, I
COMMISSIONER LORI BUCY CALLING
IN FROM ANN ARBOR.
>> I APOLOGIZE ABOUT THAT.
>> I'M GOING TO GET IT DOWN
RIGHT.
I PROMISE YOU APOLOGIES NEEDED
AND COUNCIL MEMBER GOT THE
ATWAR EVERYONE EDWYN CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
ALREADY ROLL CALL HAS BEEN
COMPLETE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH KENNEDY.
WONDERFUL.
NEXT I WANTED TO JUST GIVE A
QUICK TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
DO WE HAVE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT
TODAY?
>> WE HAVE ANYONE AT THIS TIME
ON CALL WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A PUBLIC COMMENT SAYING NO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
MOVING ON TO THE APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
I DID HAVE ONE AND I WOULD LIKE
TO MAKE AN ON THE AGENDA TODAY
.
I'D LIKE TO TO MAKE A MOTION TO
MOVE THE CITY COUNCIL UPDATE
FROM COUNCIL MEMBER EDWIN UP TO
OUR SPECIAL PRESENTATION
PORTION MOVING IT TO AFTER THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS
PRESENTATION.
ARE ALL OF YOU IS THERE A
SECOND TO SORT OF I'LL SECOND
IT OK.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
RADCLIFF FOR SECONDING THE NEW
AGENDA ALL ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE ADJUSTED
AGENDA TODAY WHERE COUNCIL
MEMBER GOZI EDWINS PRESENTATION
IS MOVED UP TO AFTER THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS PLEASE
UNMUTED.
>> I I I I I THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT IS MOVED UP TO AFTER
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH FOR
BEING OPEN TO THAT QUICK
ADJUSTMENT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
LAST MONTH.
THANK YOU KENNEDY FOR PLACING
WITHIN OUR AGENDA.
I LOOKED AT THEM.
I DIDN'T SEE ANY SPECIFIC EDITS
OR AMENDMENTS TO THE MEETING
MINUTES IF THERE ARE NOT ANY
EDITS OR ANY CORRECTIONS, IS
THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM FEBRUARY?
>> STILL PRETTY.
OK, LARRY MOVES TO PROOF.
IS THERE A SECOND THIS IS
KATHLEEN.
I WILL SECOND.
THANK YOU, KATHLEEN.
I'M ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
FEBRUARY.
TWENTY ONE PLEASE UNMUTED AND
SAY I I THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED.
I'M NEXT WE MOVE TO THE SPECIAL
PRESENTATION PORTION OF OUR
AGENDA.
I'M SORRY.
WAS THERE A COMMENT OR DID
SOMEBODY JUST MAKE A NOISE?
>> OK, JUST DOUBLE CHECKING.
PARDON ME.
SO NOW WE'RE MOVING TO THE
SPECIAL PRESENTATION PORTION
OF OUR AGENDA TODAY AND I WOULD
LIKE TO WELCOME DR. ROBERT GREG
AND I JUST WANTED TO TO MAKE
SURE I DR. GREG, IS IT OK IF I
ADDRESS YOU AS BOBBY ON PUBLIC
?
>> THAT IS JUST FINE.
YEP.
OK, SO YEAH I'D LIKE TO
INTRODUCE BOBBY GREG FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS FOR HIS
PRESENTATION.
SO DR. GREG, TAKE IT AWAY.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE
INTRODUCTION AND FOR THE
INVITATION AND EVERYONE SEE MY
PRESENTATION NOW.
GREAT.
SO YEAH, I'M GOING TO DESCRIBE
SOME ONGOING CLINICAL TRIALS AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS
PARTICULARLY FROM MY RESEARCH
LABORATORY.
THERE MAY BE OTHERS THAT ARE
LISTED HERE FROM DIFFERENT
LABORATORIES BUT THIS IS THIS
IS FOCUSED ON MY RESEARCH
ACTIVITIES SO I DIRECT THE
LOCOMOTOR CONTROL SYSTEMS
LABORATORY WHICH IS A MOUTHFUL
BUT IT'S THE MISSION OF MY
LABORATORY IS TO ENABLE AND
ENHANCE HUMAN MOBILITY THROUGH
HIGH PERFORMANCE ROBOTICS AND
CONTROL SOFTWARE.
SO WE WORK WITH AS YOU CAN SEE
IN THIS PICTURE HERE YOU WORK
WITH PROSTHETIC LEGS FOR
INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMB LOSS.
WE ALSO WORK IN EXOSKELETONS OR
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS A POWERED
AUTHORITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH INTACT LIMBS BUT WEAKENED
NEUROMUSCULAR SYSTEMS THAT THAT
COULD USE ASSISTANCE FOR FOR
LOCOMOTION AND SO IT'S GETTING
RIGHT INTO IT.
WE THE FIRST STUDY I'M GOING TO
SHARE WITH YOU ALL IS ON
ROBOTIC LEGS FOR FOR ABOVE KNEE
LIMB LOSS.
SO THIS THIS ROBOTIC LEG YOU
SEE IN THESE PHOTOS HAS A
MOTORIZED KNEE AND A MOTORIZED
ANKLE AND THEY'RE DESIGNED TO
PRODUCE THE FORCES THAT YOU'RE
THAT YOUR BIOLOGICAL JOINTS
WOULD PRODUCE UNDER NORMAL
CIRCUMSTANCES.
BUT OF COURSE WITH
WITH LIMB
LOSS THE THE THE ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS THAT ARE AVAILABLE TODAY
TYPICALLY DON'T HAVE THE THESE
MOTORIZED JOINTS.
SO TYPICALLY THEY ARE THEY ARE
THEY'RE MECHANICALLY PASSIVE
MEANING THAT THERE MAY BE A
LITTLE IT'S SPRINGY AND THEY
MAYBE HAVE SOME SORT OF DAMPING
TO THEM BUT OR SOME RESISTANCE
TO THEM BUT THEY DON'T INJECT
ENERGY OR ACTIVELY CONTRIBUTE
TO GAIT LIKE LIKE THE MUSCLES
DO AND SO THE ROBOTIC
PROSTHESES USE MOTORS TO TO DO
JUST THAT.
THEY'RE DESIGNED TO EMULATE THE
BIOLOGICAL JOINT MECHANICS' SO
THAT SO THAT IT IS THEN EASIER
TO TO TO WALK AND ESPECIALLY TO
CLIMB STAIRS, STAND UP FROM A
SEATED POSITION OR CLIMB CLIMB
UP RAMPS AND SO THE POTENTIAL
PAYOFF HERE IS THAT WE COULD
IMPROVE GAIT SYMMETRY AND AND
POTENTIALLY ENDURANCE BECAUSE
INSTEAD OF OF USING MORE ENERGY
TO COMPENSATE FOR THE THE THE
MISSING BIOMECHANICS OF THE
PROSTHETIC LEG, THE ROBOTIC LEG
WILL ACTUALLY BE PROVIDING THE
THE THE CORRECT FORCES DURING
WALKING AND THAT MEANS LESS
ENERGY EXPENDITURE FOR THE USER
AS WELL AS SPARING THE INTACT
JOINTS.
SO THERE'S THERE'S OFTEN
SECONDARY DEGENERATIVE
CONDITIONS FOR ESPECIALLY ABOVE
KNEE AMPUTEES WHO OVERUSE THEIR
THEIR SOUND SIDE AND THAT LEADS
TO OSTEOARTHRITIS AND OTHER
OTHER OTHER ISSUES DOWN THE
LINE.
SO THE GOAL HERE IS POTENTIALLY
TO SPARE THE ENTIRE LIMB AND
PREVENT THAT.
SO ANYWAY WE ARE ACTIVELY
RECRUITING INDIVIDUALS UP TO 70
YEARS OLD WITH A SINGLE ABOVE
KNEE AMPUTATION WHO USED TO USE
A PROSTHETIC FOR THE STUDY.
WE ALSO WORKING ON EXOSKELETONS
FOR AGE-RELATED MOBILITY
LIMITATIONS SO THAT WITH THE
ULTIMATE GOAL OF OF ENABLING
AGING IN PLACE AND MORE ACTIVE
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AS AS
AS PEOPLE AGE.
AND SO THE IDEA IS THAT THE
EXOSKELETON AGAIN USES MOTORS
AND SO THIS DEVICE GOES AROUND
THE BODY OR AN INTACT LIMB THAT
MAYBE JUST WEAKENED DUE TO
ADVANCED AGE AND SO THE IDEA IS
THAT THIS COULD POTENTIALLY
IMPROVE MOBILITY ESPECIALLY
CLIMBING STAIRS AND AGAIN
STANDING FROM A SEATED POSITION
WHICH ARE COMMON COMMON
CHALLENGES AND ALSO ENDURANCE.
BYE BYE AGAIN TRYING TO TO
REDUCE THE METABOLIC COST
OF PERFORMING THESE ACTIVITIES.
AND SO WE ARE CURRENTLY
RECRUITING INDIVIDUALS.
SIXTY FIVE TO EIGHTY FIVE YEARS
OLD WHO HAVE AGE RELATED
REDUCTIONS IN MOBILITY.
SO FOR EXAMPLE CLIMBING STAIRS.
SO SO IF YOU ARE YOU OR ANYONE
YOU KNOW HAS DIFFICULTY
CLIMBING STAIRS AT HOME OR
ABOUT IN THE COMMUNITY, MAYBE
GETTING WINDED AFTER MAYBE A
SINGLE STAIRCASE OR OR FLIGHT
OF STAIRS, THIS DEVICE MIGHT
MIGHT BE ABLE TO ASSIST WITH
THAT AND SO SO ON.
ALL THESE ACTIVITIES ARE
CONFINED TO THE LABORATORY
SPACE SO THEY'RE NOT YET TO THE
POINT WHERE WE CAN SEND THEM
HOME WITH WITH USERS BUT THAT
WOULD BE THE NEXT CLINICAL
TRIAL.
SO THIS IS A PHASE ZERO
CLINICAL TRIAL WHICH IS THE
DEVICE FEASIBILITY.
IF THE RESULTS ARE PROMISING
THEN WE ASK THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH TO PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR THE NEXT
PHASE THE CLINICAL TRIAL WHICH
COULD INCLUDE TAKE HOME
ASSESSMENTS AND THEN THE FINAL
STUDY I'M GOING TO SHARE WITH
YOU TODAY IS EXOSKELETONS FOR
OSTEOARTHRITIS.
SO AND NOW THIS POPULATION
TENDS TO HAVE SOME OVERLAP WITH
THE THE POPULATION IN THE
PREVIOUS SLIDE OF COURSE AS
PEOPLE AGE THE DEVICE BECOMES
MORE COMMON BUT WE'RE
PARTICULARLY LOOKING AT USING
EXOSKELETONS TO PARTIALLY
OFFLOAD MUSCLE CONTRACTION THAT
THAT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SOME
OF THE PAIN THAT PEOPLE
EXPERIENCE WITH OSTEOARTHRITIS.
SO SO FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH THAT
THAT FOR EXAMPLE HAVE
SIGNIFICANT PAIN DURING
CLIMBING RAMPS OR STAIRS,
THAT'S BECAUSE YOUR MUSCLES ARE
ARE PROVIDING A LOT OF FORCE
AND THAT FORCE IS COMPRESSING
THE ARTICULAR SURFACES OF OF
THE JOINTS OF YOUR BONES AND
THAT THAT BERNABEI INTERACTION
IS PAINFUL.
AND SO THE IDEA IS THAT IF WE
COULD OFFLOAD SOME OF THAT
MUSCULAR FORCE BY LETTING THE
EXOSKELETON PROVIDE THAT
INSTEAD OF THE PERSON'S OWN
MUSCLES, THEN WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO REDUCE PAIN DURING THESE
CHALLENGING ACTIVITIES AND
THEREFORE INCREASE MOBILITY AND
OF COURSE WITH INCREASED
MOBILITY AND INCREASED NUMBER
OF STEPS THAT ALSO CAN HELP
WITH STRENGTH AND AND
POTENTIALLY WEIGHT RELATED
IMPACTS ON OA BECAUSE IT'S KIND
OF LIKE A VICIOUS CYCLE THAT IF
YOU LOSE MOBILITY IT CAN BECOME
WORSE OVER TIME.
AND SO WE WANT WE WANT TO WE
WANT TO BREAK THAT THAT CYCLE
AND ABLE PEOPLE TO HAVE MORE
STEPS AND A DAY AND HOPEFULLY
PREVENT FURTHER PROGRESSION
OF OF THE OF THE ARTHRITIS.
AND SO HERE WE'RE RECRUITING
INDIVIDUALS 18 TO EIGHTY FIVE
YEARS OLD WHO HAVE BEEN
DIAGNOSED WITH KNEE OR ANKLE
ARTHRITIS, OSTEOARTHRITIS.
WE'RE ALSO INTERESTED IN HIP
ARTHRITIS AS WELL.
BUT OUR CURRENT STUDIES ARE
FOCUSED ON THE KNEE AND ANKLE
AND ALL OF THESE CLINICAL
TRIALS I JUST MENTIONED ALSO
COMPENSATE FOR FOR THE TIME
OF THE PARTICIPANTS AT FORTY
DOLLARS AN HOUR.
SO SO WE WE DEFINITELY RESPECT
THE TIME OF THE PARTICIPANTS IN
THESE TRIALS.
>> SO YEAH THAT'S MY
PRESENTATION.
THIS IS OUR BEAUTIFUL BUILDING.
THE NEW DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
SO COME SEE US ONE DAY IF YOU
HAVEN'T ALREADY ALL THE
LABORATORIES HAVE A GLASS WALL
SO YOU CAN YOU CAN PEEK IN
THERE AND DO A SELF GUIDED TOUR
AND IT'S A LOT OF FUN.
YOU CAN SEE A LOT OF COOL
ROBOTS WALKING AROUND FLYING
AROUND AND IT'S SOME REALLY
COOL STUFF HAPPENING HERE.
>> SO I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
ATTENTION AND IF THERE ARE
QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER
THEM.
BOBBY, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
THIS WONDERFUL PRESENTATION AND
FOR THE WORK THAT THE CONTROL
SYSTEM'S LABORATORY IS DOING AT
THE DEPARTMENT OF ROBOTICS.
I WILL OPEN IT UP FOR COMMENT
BUT I WILL LIMIT IT JUST DUE TO
TIME TO ABOUT THREE OR FOUR
QUESTIONS IT IF YOU WANT TO
CALL ON ANY COMMISSIONERS THAT
HAVE THEIR HAND UP THIS TIME.
>> MISSIONER BROZAK.
YES.
THANK YOU FOR THIS EXCELLENT
PRESENTATION.
>> I'M WONDERING DO YOU SO I'VE
SEEN LIKE ON FACEBOOK AND
THINGS LIKE THAT WHERE OTHER
RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES HAVE
BEEN AVAILABLE THROUGH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
>> HAVE YOU SHARED THIS ACROSS
ANY SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS SO
THAT IT MIGHT BE EASIER FOR US
TO SHARE THIS GREAT INFORMATION
?
I APPRECIATE THAT.
SO WE HAVE SHARED SOME OF OUR
FLIER'S TO SOME AMPUTEE'S FOCUS
GROUPS ON FACEBOOK.
WE HAVE NOT ACTUALLY DONE A
SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN FOR THE
OTHER STUDIES YET.
SO THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
ACTUALLY WE SHOULD DO.
I WILL SAY WE'VE HAD SOME SOME
GREAT INTEREST SHOWN ALREADY
FOR THE ELDERLY STUDY AND SO
WE'RE STILL GOING THROUGH SOME
OF THE PEOPLE HAVE INDICATED
INTEREST THERE THROUGH THE UM
HEALTH RESEARCH BIG PLATFORM.
BUT YES, WE COULD USE ANY HELP
THAT THAT THAT THAT WE CAN GET
IN TERMS OF GETTING THE WORD
OUT.
SO WHAT I SHOULD PROBABLY DO IS
ONCE WE HAVE SOME SOCIAL MEDIA
PRESENCE THAT WE CAN SHARE WITH
YOU, WE WILL ALLOW FOR THAT TO
TO ZACK IF THAT'S OK AND THEN
MAYBE MAYBE HE CAN GET THE WORD
OUT FOR YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
DOCTOR, ARE YOU HAPPY TO DO
THAT?
THANK YOU.
THANKS MISSIONER PACARD.
>> YES, GREAT PRESENTATION AS
WELL.
I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
I'VE WORKED WITHIN MEDIA AND
YOU CAN REACH OUT TO ZACH.
I'D LOVE TO GET IN TOUCH WITH
YOU AND TALK WITH YOU WORKED IN
HEALTH CARE AND MEDIA IN THE
AREA.
IF YOU COULD GET IN TOUCH WITH
ME, SEE ABOUT MAYBE GETTING A
VIDEO PUT TOGETHER AND REACHING
OUT TO SOME OF THE AREA
INSTITUTIONS.
SO IF YOU FEEL FREE TO GET IN
TOUCH, I APPRECIATE THAT I WILL
.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OH YEAH.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU NEED ANY
THANK YOU.
EXTRA HELP WITHIN YOUR
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU NEED ANY
DEPARTMENT OR WHATEVER IS
EXTRA HELP WITHIN YOUR
NEEDED TO FORWARD YOUR CALLS.
DEPARTMENT OR WHATEVER IS
>> I THINK IT'S GREAT.
NEEDED TO FORWARD YOUR CALLS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I THINK IT'S GREAT.
YEAH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER PACARD
YEAH.
I'LL I'LL CONNECT YOU BOTH AND
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER PACARD
HOPEFULLY THAT CAN BE FRUITFUL
I'LL I'LL CONNECT YOU BOTH AND
AS WELL AND YEAH ROB'S A GREAT
HOPEFULLY THAT CAN BE FRUITFUL
VIDEOGRAPHER JUST GIVEN A QUICK
AS WELL AND YEAH ROB'S A GREAT
PLUG SO ABSOLUTE WHICH IS THAT
VIDEOGRAPHER JUST GIVEN A QUICK
.
PLUG SO ABSOLUTE WHICH IS THAT
ALL RIGHT.
.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR DR.
ALL RIGHT.
GREG AND THE DEPARTMENT
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR DR.
OF ROBOTIC AND THIS IS SO NEAT
GREG AND THE DEPARTMENT
I MEAN THAT EXOSKELETON STUFF
OF ROBOTIC AND THIS IS SO NEAT
AND ALSO THE THE THE
I MEAN THAT EXOSKELETON STUFF
PROSTHETICS I I REALLY HOPE YOU
AND ALSO THE THE THE
GUYS CONTINUE TO DO TO DO GREAT
PROSTHETICS I I REALLY HOPE YOU
STUDIES LIKE THIS AND YOU KNOW
GUYS CONTINUE TO DO TO DO GREAT
ANY TIME YOU'RE YOU'RE DOING
STUDIES LIKE THIS AND YOU KNOW
ONE PLEASE PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
ANY TIME YOU'RE YOU'RE DOING
KEEP IN THE LOOP.
ONE PLEASE PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
>> I APPRECIATE THAT AND YOUR
KEEP IN THE LOOP.
YOUR YOUR TAXPAYER DOLLARS ARE
>> I APPRECIATE THAT AND YOUR
HARD AT WORK.
YOUR YOUR TAXPAYER DOLLARS ARE
WELL GOOD GOOD AS FAR AS
HARD AT WORK.
MOBILITY GOES THAT'S THAT'S
WELL GOOD GOOD AS FAR AS
GREAT.
MOBILITY GOES THAT'S THAT'S
>> GREAT TO SEE THAT.
GREAT.
>> YEAH.
>> GREAT TO SEE THAT.
THANK YOU DAVE.
>> YEAH.
OK AND THEN I THINK YOU'RE
THANK YOU DAVE.
STILL SHARING ACTUALLY DON'T
OK AND THEN I THINK YOU'RE
LET ME STOP
ALL RIGHT GREAT
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT I'M MOVING ON.
WE WILL HAVE NOW THE CITY
COUNCIL UPDATE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
THIS IS AISHA.
SO I JUST WANTED TO GO THROUGH
A FEW UPDATES WITH ALL OF YOU
AND TALK ABOUT WHAT'S KIND
OF WHAT'S WHAT'S IN
DEVELOPMENT.
SO DURING THE LAST MEETING WE
TALKED ABOUT THE ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPACES NOT HAVING
ADEQUATELY PAINTED LINES IN THE
CITY PARKING LOT AND I HAVE
BEEN WORKING WITH OUR
ACCESSIBILITY COORDINATOR TRACY
BYRD WHO FILLED ME IN ON SOME
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND I
DID WRITE THE CITY AND THEY
PROPOSED THAT THEY COULD PUT A
SIGN LIKE ADDITIONAL SIGNAGE TO
INDICATE WHERE THE AISLES ARE.
AND YOU KNOW, UPON TALKING WITH
TRACY IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE IT'S
THE MOST ACCESSIBLE SOLUTION.
SO RIGHT NOW I'M WORKING ON
GETTING A MEETING WITH SOME
CITY STAFF TO TALK ABOUT JUST
REPAINTING THE LINES.
>> THEY SEEM TO HAVE A HAND UP
.
YES.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR BRINGING
THIS UP.
I WAS GOING TO BRING IT UP A
LITTLE LATER.
>> I ACTUALLY HAD WITH WITH
YOUR SUPPORT WITH WITH
EVERYONE'S SUPPORT ACTUALLY I
GOT A MEETING WITH JOHN WAGNER
THIS AFTERNOON ACTUALLY MORNING
SPENT THIS MORNING AND THEY ARE
ORDERING BLUEPRINT'S THAT'S
AMAZING TO TO MAKE TO THE
PARKING LOT THE ACCESSIBLE AND
THE PARKING SPOTS MORE
ACCESSIBLE OR I SHOULD SAY MORE
ACCESSIBLE BUT AT LEAST MARK
OUT THE ACCESSIBLE.
SO THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR WORK
AND FOR YOUR YOUR SUPPORT ON
THIS.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
YES.
THANK THAT IS GREAT TO HEAR.
IT JUST GOES TO SHOW THERE'S SO
MANY PEOPLE IN THE CITY THAT
YOU CAN BE HAVING TWO
CONVERSATIONS WITH TWO
DIFFERENT PEOPLE BUT THAT'S WHY
I'M SO HAPPY THAT YOU COME TO
THESE COMMISSION MEETINGS.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR WORK ON
THAT.
OK, SO NEXT UP IS I AM WORKING
WITH SOME COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
STRENGTHENING OUR POLICIES
AROUND SNOW MANAGEMENT.
I THINK THIS LAST YEAR SHOWED
JUST A LOT OF FOLKS, BOTH
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND
PEOPLE WHO DON'T HAVE
DISABILITIES THAT SNOW CAN BE
REALLY DANGEROUS AND SO CAN I
USE AND IN THESE POLICY
RECOMMENDATIONS I HAVE PULLED
ALEX GOSSAGE INTO IT AND WE ARE
TRYING TO MAKE SOME
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT ARE
SPECIFIC TO ACCESSIBILITY LIKE
WE WANT TO SEE POLICIES THAT
SAY SOMETHING LIKE THE CITY
NEEDS TO MORE FREQUENTLY ALLOW
CURB CUTS OR MORE FREQUENTLY
ALLOW ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES
TO MAKE SURE THAT MILES ARE
ALWAYS VISIBLE AND ALSO THAT
WHEN COMMUNITY STANDARDS ISSUES
TICKETS FOR NOT ADEQUATELY
CLEARING YOUR SNOW ON YOUR
SIDEWALK FOR EXAMPLE THAT IT
TAKES INTO CONSIDERATION IF A
PERSON IS AN OLDER ADULT OR
SOME SOMEONE WITH A DISABILITY
AND ALSO HAS ADEQUATE RESOURCES
TO PROVIDE THEM WITH
ASSISTANCE.
SO WE HAVE THE SNOW BUDDIES
PROGRAM OR I'M SORRY I THINK
IT'S THIS NO-MATCH PROGRAM AND
SOME OTHER THINGS SO WORKING ON
THAT WITH ALEX RIGHT NOW, ALEX,
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU WANT TO
CHIME IN AND SAY ANYTHING HERE
BUT NO THANK YOU.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
ADDITIONAL TO ADD AT THE MOMENT
JUST THAT I THINK THERE ARE
SOME REALLY IMPORTANT PIECES
THAT WE NEED TO START ASKING
THE CITY AND BUSINESS OWNERS IN
TERMS OF CLEARING SITES
DOWNTOWN.
YOU KNOW, THEY SPENT A LOT
OF TIME DOING THINGS LIKE
CLEARING BIKE LANES AND ALL
OF THOSE THINGS AND NOW IT'S
REALLY TIME TO LOOK AT PARKING
SPACES AND PIECES THAT ARE JUST
GETTING MISSED ALL THE TIME
THAT ARE A REAL SAFETY HAZARD
FOR A LOT OF US AT WORST TIMES
AND AT THE BEST OF TIMES
THEY'RE THERE BARRIERS FOR US
GETTING AROUND.
YEAH, YEAH.
THANKS SO MUCH ALEX.
IF ANYONE ELSE HAS ANY
QUESTIONS ABOUT IT ALSO FEEL
FREE TO SEND ME AN EMAIL
.
>> SURE DAMAN YES THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER AS WELL AS YOUR CITY
COORDINATOR AND AS WELL AS ALEX
.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A QUICK
COMMENT AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
YOUR EFFORTS ON THIS.
SNOW HAS BEEN AN ISSUE FOR A
LONG TIME ON THIS COMMISSION,
SOMETHING WE'VE DEFINITELY BEEN
BEEN WORKING WITH WHETHER IT'S
THE SNOWBOARDING ORGANIZATION
OR WHATEVER IT BE AND I THINK
THAT THESE ARE GREAT STEPS
FORWARD TO TO MAKE SURE THAT
LET'S FACE IT DURING THE
SEASONS THAT ACCESSIBILITY IS
PARAMOUNT.
SO I JUST WANT TO COMMEND YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER AS WELL AS
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE AND ALL
THE PARTIES INVOLVED FOR BEING
OPEN, RECEPTIVE AND CONSISTENT
ON THIS REMOVAL ISSUE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OH, THANK YOU.
YEAH, YOU MUST BE READING MY
MIND ON ALL THESE THINGS SO
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT UP.
I WAS GOING TO BE PART OF WHAT
I HAD TO REPORT EL I DO WANT TO
LET YOU KNOW THAT I ACTUALLY
DID MEET WITH THE OFFICE
OF COMMUNITY STANDARDS
ENFORCEMENT YESTERDAY TO TRY TO
TO TRY TO STREAMLINE MORE ABOUT
HOW THEY ENFORCE THE REMOVAL
OF SNOW LIKE YOU SAID FOR
PERSONS WHO MIGHT BE AN OLDER
ADULTS, SOMEBODY WITH A
DISABILITY, EVEN ALSO SOMEBODY
WHO IS HAS A LOWER INCOME AND
IS UNABLE TO PAY FOR UNABLE TO
DO AND OR ALSO TO PAY FOR SNOW
REMOVAL.
SO I'LL BE WORKING WITH THEM
ALONG WITH THE THE SNOW MATCH
PROGRAM AS WELL AS OUR CUSTOMER
SERVICE OFFICE TO SEE HOW WE
CAN LINK ALL OF THOSE TOGETHER
.
SO IF AS AN ENFORCEMENT
SOMEBODY DOES GET A TICKET, HOW
CAN WE WORK WITH CUSTOMER
SERVICE TO STREAMLINE THAT SO
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN?
RIGHT.
SO SO PEOPLE CAN HAVE SIDEWALKS
SHOVELED GRACE FOR IF
CIRCUMSTANCES THAT THEY NEED A
LITTLE EXTRA TIME.
SO THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT
UP.
IT IS A VERY IMPORTANT AND VERY
IMPORTANT TOPIC.
>> THANKS TRACEY.
AND IF I COULD JUST SAY REALLY
QUICK THIS IS ISCHIA.
LET'S TOUCH BASE ON THAT
BECAUSE WE ARE CREATING AN
ORDINANCE THAT WILL HELP TO
STRENGTHEN AND CREATE NEW KIND
OF I GUESS YOU REFER TO IT AS
SNOW MANAGEMENT POLICIES.
SO THERE MIGHT BE A WAY FOR US
TO KIND OF FORMALIZE WHAT
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT IN TERMS
OF THESE PROCESS CHANGES IN
THIS POLICY YOU MENTIONED
OF SOLOMON I JUST WANTED TO
PLUS ONE ON THAT ISSUE OF SNOW
REMOVAL AND THE TYPICALLY LAG
THE ISSUE OF BIKE LANES GETTING
CLEARED BEFORE MOTORIZED
VEHICLE LANES WHICH DID HAPPEN
BACK IN JANUARY AT WHICH POINT
I WROTE AN EMAIL TO THE MAYOR
DC TRACEY BIRD ALTHOUGH FOR
SOME REASON THAT EMAIL BOUNCING
AND I JUST FIND THAT TO BE A
POTENTIAL ISSUE IF IN FACT
WHAT'S GETTING PRIORITIZED IS
BIKE LANES, WHICH IS NOT
NECESSARILY AN ACCESSIBLE FORM
OF TRANSPORTATION ESPECIALLY IN
LIEU OF MOTORIZED VEHICLE LANES
WHICH OFTEN DO SERVE THE
DISABLED IN.
YEAH, YEAH I AGREE.
AND ON THAT NOTE ACTUALLY
ANOTHER THING THAT WE ARE
WORKING ON IS I ASKED A CITY
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT THEY'VE
INTENDED TO HAVE ANY SORT
OF EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN ON THE
FACT THAT BIKE LANES AND
SIDEWALKS TO BE SHARED BY
BICYCLISTS AND PEOPLE WHO ARE
USING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS OR
ANY OTHER SORT OF MOBILITY
DEVICE.
THEY HAVE NOT SAID THAT THEY
ARE PLANNING TO DO SOMETHING
BUT I'M IN THE WORKS OF TALKING
TO THEM ABOUT IT.
SO AS ALEX ALEX I BELIEVE I
LOOPED YOU INTO THAT AS WELL
BECAUSE I THINK THERE DOES SEEM
TO BE SOME PUBLIC EDUCATION
OF SHARE THE LANES AND
SIDEWALKS MAYBE SORT
OF CAMPAIGN.
SO I'LL KEEP YOU UPDATED ON
THAT NEXT IS THE RIGHT TO SET
POLICY SOMETHING I'VE BEEN
WORKING ON FOR A WHILE NOW AND
ESSENTIALLY GIVE EMPLOYEES THE
RIGHT TO SIT AND YOU DON'T HAVE
TO HAVE A DISABILITY AND IT
WOULD BE LIKE WORKING IN A
DRIVE THROUGH A RETAIL SPACE OR
EVEN CUTTING HAIR.
IT'S UNFORTUNATELY PREEMPTED BY
STATE LAW, SOMETHING THAT USED
TO BE FEDERALLY IMPLEMENTED
UNTIL ABOUT NINETEEN SEVENTY.
SO RIGHT NOW WE'RE GETTING A
LEGAL OPINION FROM A LAW FIRM
ABOUT WHETHER WE CAN ENACT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS AT A LOCAL
LEVEL.
SO I WILL KEEP YOU UPDATED ON
THAT AND THAT AND FINALLY I AM
MEETING WITH THE RENTAL UNITS
DEPARTMENT IN THE HOUSING
DEPARTMENT TO BEGIN DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT US CREATING A PUBLIC
FACING LIST THAT WOULD SHOW ALL
AFFORDABLE HOMES AND THE LEVEL
OF ACCESSIBILITY AND SOMETHING
THAT DETROIT HAS CALLED DETROIT
HOME CONNECT WHICH MY
ORGANIZATION IS INVOLVED IN
HELPING TO BUILD IT.
DETROIT HOME CONNECT ALSO LISTS
,YOU KNOW, PRIVATE SPACES SO
LIKE LANDLORD LANDLORD OWNED
SPACES OR APARTMENTS OR UNITS
AND WE ARE BEGINNING THAT
CONVERSATION ALSO THAT
INFORMATION MAY BE REALLY
DIFFICULT TO COLLECT.
SO TALKING TO DETROIT ABOUT HOW
DID THEY HOW DO THEY ENFORCE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS BUT ALSO
WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT TO HAVE
A LIST OF THE LEVEL
ACCESSIBILITY OF BOTH PRIVATE
AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS IS
BECAUSE YOU HAVE A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE HOUSING
INSECURE THAT CYCLE IN AND OUT
OF SOME SHELTERS TO HOMES WHO
HAVE A DISABILITY
.
THEY DISPROPORTIONATELY ARE
PEOPLE WITH A DISABILITY OR
HOUSING INSECURE ABOUT HOW TO
MAKE SURE THAT WHEN YOU WHEN
YOU WERE EXPERIENCING HOUSING
INSECURITY YOU'RE NOT ALSO
HAVING DISABILITY EXACERBATED.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT.
>> I'LL KEEP YOU UPDATED.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR ME, JARED
DIAMOND?
>> YEAH, JUST ONE FINAL COUNCIL
MEMBER.
JUST THANK YOU AGAIN FOR THIS
OUTSTANDING WORK AND PLEASE
PLEASE KEEP US INFORMED IF
THERE'S ANY SUPPORT THAT WE CAN
GIVE ESPECIALLY ON THE SNOW
REMOVAL POLICY THAT YOU'RE
WORKING ON.
I WOULD LOVE TO BE ABLE TO
REVIEW THAT AND BE A PART
OF THAT PROCESS AS WELL BECAUSE
THAT HAS BEEN SOMETHING THAT'S
BEEN BROUGHT TO THE
COMMISSION'S ATTENTION FOR
YEARS AND I FEEL LIKE THIS IS
JUST A GO AHEAD, LARRY.
>> I JUST WOULD YOU IT WAS ON
THE COMMISSION WHAT I GOT ON
THE COMMISSION IN 2011.
I'M SURE IT'S BEEN THERE BEFORE
THAT SO IT'S THERE.
YEAH, YEAH, I WILL I WILL LOOP
YOU AND ZACH AND I THINK YEAH.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
RADCLYFFE FOR THE ACCESSIBLE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNIT LIST.
DO WE ALREADY HAVE ONE THAT IS
JUST WHAT THE CITY OWNED.
>> CAN WE DO WE DO YEAH YEAH
THE HOUSING COMMISSION DOES
KNOW THE LEVEL ACCESSIBILITY
THEY DO HAVE A LIST AND I'M
TRYING TO WORK WITH THEM TO GO
AHEAD.
>> I THINK I WAS GOING TO ASK
IS IT IS IT POSTED YOU KNOW
DON'T FEEL LIKE STUPID ASKING
THAT STUPID QUESTION BECAUSE
PART OF THE ISSUE AND THAT
THESE ORGANIZATIONS THAT ASSIST
PEOPLE WITH GETTING HOUSING ARE
UNABLE TO KNOW, YOU KNOW, WHERE
THEY CAN SEARCH AND WHERE THEY
CAN ADVISE THEM TO GET HOUSING
HOW LONG THE WAIT LIST IS.
>> THAT'S ANOTHER THING THAT'S
ON DETROIT HOME CANNOCK.
>> SO I'M STILL TRYING TO GET
CLARIFICATION ON THAT.
I KNOW A LIST EXISTS AND THAT
IS COLLECTED.
I DO NOT KNOW IF IT'S PUBLIC
FACING.
I DON'T BELIEVE IT IS BECAUSE I
WOULD KNOW THE ONE I DON'T
REMEMBER SEEING IT AND ALSO
BECAUSE IT'S THIS IS ALSO A
RENTER'S ISSUE.
I HAVE I OPEN TO JOINING US AND
THE RENTERS COMMISSION AND THE
MEETING TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
>> I WOULD LOVE TO.
SO WHAT MY MEETING RIGHT NOW IS
IS I'M GOING TO ASK THE PERSON
WHO IS IN CHARGE THE RENTAL
DEPARTMENT WITHIN THE CITY IF
THIS CAN BE SOMETHING THAT THEY
ADD TO RENTAL INSPECTION.
THAT'S WHERE I'M STARTING RIGHT
NOW.
BUT YEAH, I WOULD LOVE TO COME
AND UPDATE YOU GUYS.
THANK YOU.
YEAH, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> OK, THANKS EVERYONE.
YOU KNOW HOW TO EMAIL ME.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH COUNCIL
MEMBER.
>> WE APPRECIATE ALL YOUR
EFFORTS AND ALL YOUR WORK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'M MOVING ON TO THE SPECIAL
PRESENTATIONS PORTION OF OUR
AGENDA TODAY.
NEXT WE HAVE THE LIBRARY FOR
THE BLIND AND PHYSICALLY
DISABLED REPORT WITH KATIE
GAVAGE.
>> WELCOME, KATIE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANKS EVERYBODY FOR HAVING ME
HERE.
I HAVE A COUPLE
OF ANNOUNCEMENTS TODAY, SOME
UPCOMING EVENTS TO DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO.
WE HAVE MEDITATION AND
MINDFULNESS FOR ADULTS.
THAT'S ON MONDAY, MARCH TWENTY
FIFTH AT SIX PM AT OUR
PITTSFIELD RANCH.
IN THE PROGRAM ROOM ATTENDEES
WILL BE GUIDED THROUGH A SERIES
OF MEDITATIONS INTENDED TO HELP
YOU FEEL MORE GROUNDED,
CENTERED AND EMBODIED EXPANDING
YOUR CONSCIOUSNESS AND
DISCIPLINING YOUR MIND WITH
PRACTICE.
THESE MEDITATIONS MAY SUPPORT
YOUR SENSE OF WELL-BEING AND
RESILIENCE WHETHER YOU ARE AN
EXPERIENCED MEDITATOR OR JUST
BEGINNING THESE MEDITATIONS CAN
BE WHERE YOU ARE EACH GUIDED
MEDITATION IS DIFFERENT
INTUITIVELY CRAFTED FOR THOSE
IN ATTENDANCE.
AND THEN WE HAVE HELLO MY NAME
IS OUR NAME CHANGE CLINIC
BECAUSE THIS IS GOING TO BE ON
FRIDAY MARCH TWENTY NINTH AT
FIVE THIRTY AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY IN OUR FOURTH FLOOR
MEETING ROOM JOIN THE GYM TOYE
COMMUNITY CENTERS OUTREACH AND
THE OUTLAW'S OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN FOR A FREE CLINIC
DEDICATED TO ADDRESSING THE
CHALLENGES OF NAME CHANGES FOR
TRANSGENDER AND GENDER
NONCONFORMING PEOPLE.
THEY WILL PROVIDE DETAILS ON
HOW TO LEGALLY CHANGE YOUR NAME
AND GENDER MARKER IN
INFORMATION ON HOW TO UPDATE
YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY PASSWORD
DRIVER'S LICENSE BIRTH
CERTIFICATE WILL ALSO BE
AVAILABLE.
LEGAL VOLUNTEERS TO BE ON SITE
AFTER THE PRESENTATION TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS AND ASSIST
WITH FORMS AND THERE WILL ALSO
BE FINGERPRINTING SERVICES
AVAILABLE ON SITE FOR NO FEE.
AND THEN WE ALSO WANT YOU TO
SAVE THE DATE FOR REVISIONS
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR TECHNOLOGY
AND SERVICES FOR THE BLIND,
VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND
PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
THIS WILL BE ON WEDNESDAY, JUNE
5TH FROM 11 A.M. TO FOUR P.M.
AT OUR DOWNTOWN BRANCH MOSTLY
IN THE LOBBY AND THEN WILL HAVE
PRESENTATIONS IN THE LOWER
LEVEL OF PRODUCT DEMONSTRATIONS
AND PRESENTATIONS THROUGHOUT
THE DAY.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE HUMAN
ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE.
I'LL HAVE MORE DETAILS IN THE
FUTURE BUT I WILL TELL YOU THAT
OUR VENDOR REGISTRATION HAS
BEGUN AND IS GOING VERY WELL.
SO THE PLANNING IS GOING GREAT
FOR MATERIALS FROM THE LIBRARY
WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND
AND DISABLED PATRONS CAN ORDER
JUST DIGITAL CARTRIDGES BY
CALLING US AT SEVEN THREE FOUR
THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR TO TO FOUR
OR YOU CAN ALWAYS EMAIL US AT W
ALBI PRE ADR THAT ORG YOU CAN
SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE AND
AUDIO READING DOWNLOAD SERVICE
BARD TO DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS
YOU CAN VISIT ANALISE VIA
L.L.C. GRV OR CALL US AND WE
CAN ASSIST YOU WITH THE
APPLICATION.
A COUPLE OF BOOKS HAVE BEEN
RECENTLY POPULAR ON BAAD WONDER
DOGS TRUE STORIES
OF EXTRAORDINARY ASSISTANCE
DOGS BY MAUREEN MAHRER EXCUSE
ME AFTER A DEVASTATING
DIAGNOSIS AT THE AGE OF THIRTY
NINE, MAUREEN MOORE WAS GIVEN A
SECOND CHANCE AT LIFE GIVING UP
HER SUCCESSFUL CAREER AS A CPA.
SHE TOOK A LEAP OF FAITH TO
PURSUE HER CHILDHOOD DREAM
TEACHING DOGS TO HELP PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES.
SHE FOUNDED TWO NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS ASSISTANT DOGS
OF HAWAII AND ASSISTANT DOGS NW
AND POTENTIAL DOGS HAVE TO HELP
PEOPLE WITH SPECIAL NEEDS AND
UNDERDOGS.
MAUREEN SHARES HER STORY
OF DISCOVERING GOD'S TRUE
PURPOSE FOR HER LIFE AND THE
AMAZING ADVENTURE THAT
FOLLOWED.
SHE ALSO TELLS A TRIUMPHANT
STORIES OF HER BELOVED DOGS AND
THEIR INSPIRING PARTNERS AS
THEY OVERCOME INCREDIBLE
CHALLENGES TO LIVE LIFE TO THE
FULLEST.
DOG LOVERS EVERYWHERE WILL
ENJOY THIS FASCINATING BEHIND
THE SCENES LOOK AT WHAT GOES
INTO SELECTING AND TRAINING
ASSISTANCE DOGS.
WE ALSO HAVE A BOOK THAT HAS
BEEN RECENTLY TURNED INTO A
VERY POPULAR MOVIE KILLERS
OF THE FLOWER MOON THE OSAGE
MURDERS AND THE BIRTH OF THE
FBI BY DAVID GRANN AN
EXAMINATION OF THE 1920S
MURDERS OF WEALTHY OSAGE INDIAN
NATION MEMBERS IN OKLAHOMA WHEN
THE NEWLY FORMED FBI BUNGLED
THE INVESTIGATION, YOUNG
DIRECTOR HOOVER TURNED TO AX
TEXAS RANGER TOM WHITE WHO PUT
TOGETHER AN UNDERCOVER TEAM
INCLUDING ONE OF THE ONLY
AMERICAN AGENTS IN THE BUREAU.
AND FINALLY SOMETHING THAT YOU
MAY NOT THINK OF WHEN YOU THINK
OF GETTING AUDIOBOOKS FROM THE
LIBRARY.
BUT WE HAVE PIMSLEUR SPANISH
LEVEL ONE YOU CAN LEARN TO
SPEAK, UNDERSTAND AND READ
SPANISH BUT PIMSLEUR LANGUAGE
PROGRAMS THIS IS THE FIRST
INSTALLMENT IN THE SERIES TO
LEARN THE SPANISH LANGUAGE
THROUGH A PROGRAM OF SHORT
LESSONS USING METHODS DERIVED
FROM RESEARCH ON MEMORY AND
LEARNING.
IT FEATURES ALL NATIVE SPEAKERS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY PRINT
MATERIALS ARE AVAILABLE IN
BRAILLE AND THAT IS THAT I HAVE
FOR YOU TODAY.
>> DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS FOR ME?
ZACH?
>> DO YOU HAVE YOUR HANDS?
IF THEY DO I'M SORRY MY ARM IS
GETTING TIRED.
NO PROBLEMS.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOLKS.
I JUST WANT TO SAY FOR THE
RECORD THAT CODY ISN'T RIGHT
ENVISIONS THIS YEAR SO I'M
PUTTING THE CALL OUT RIGHT NOW.
I AS I FILL OUT THE APPLICATION
I WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND WITH ME
I WILL BE THERE.
SO THAT'S ONE.
BUT I'D LIKE TO EITHER BE OK,
LARRY, YOU'RE ON THE LIST.
COMMISSIONER PACKARD.
I'M NOT TRYING TO VOLUNTEER FOR
YOU BUT I KNOW THE PAST AND YOU
ARE INTERESTED IN IT.
>> SHOULD I ALSO PUT YOUR NAME
DOWN AS A THIRD?
YEAH, JUST AS LONG AS I'M IN
TOWN DURING THAT DATE.
I WOULD LOVE TO IF I OR
WHATEVER I CAN DO I AM EXACTLY
ABSOLUTELY HAPPY TO JOIN.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
OK, ABSOLUTELY.
AND SO I WILL PUT THOSE THREE
NAMES DOWN BUT OF COURSE KATIE
DENHA OK WE HAVE COMMISSIONERS'
LIKE ATTEND AND END UP
STROLLING UP AND WANTING TO TO
TALK ABOUT INFORMATION AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
IS THAT ALL RIGHT.
>> OF COURSE THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE ALL WELCOME TO COME AND
WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO HEAR THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO COMMIT TO YOUR
TABLE.
>> WE LOVE HAVING YOU GUYS
THERE.
WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL.
>> THANK YOU.
I THINK GOING THIS FOREVER IT'S
AN AMAZING IT'S SUCH AN AMAZING
EVENT.
>> YOU GUYS AND YOU KNOW THE
LIBRARY IS SUCH A WONDERFUL JOB
OF REALLY SHOWCASING THE GREAT
TECHNOLOGY THAT'S AVAILABLE NOT
ONLY IN OUR COMMUNITY AROUND
THE STATE.
I MEAN ORGANIZATIONS FROM ALL
AROUND THE STATE COME IN.
IT'S JUST A GREAT COMMUNITY
WIDE EXCUSE ME EVENT AND
KENNEDY, I'LL TALK WITH YOU
OFFLINE BECAUSE I'M HOPING THAT
WE STILL HAVE A TABLE OUTREACH
KIT WITH OUR SIGN BUT WE CAN
TALK OFFLINE ABOUT THAT.
>> OK, SOUNDS AWESOME.
COMMISSIONER PARKER, DID YOU
HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION?
OH, I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY
THAT'S WHERE I MET ZACH LAST
YEAR SO IT IS A GREAT PLACE TO
CONNECT WITH EACH OTHER AND
MEET NEW PEOPLE AND SPREAD ALL
THE GOOD WORD OF ALL THE GREAT
THINGS THAT ARE GOING ON.
SO JUST ANOTHER PLUG AND IN
YOUR BOOKS THAT ARE POPULAR YOU
MENTIONED THE HERO GUIDE DOGS.
I LOVE THAT BECAUSE I'M
ACTUALLY LOOKING INTO GETTING A
GUIDE DOG SOON.
SO ANYWAY I COULD EVEN SHARE
THAT WITH ANY OF THE SCHOOLS
THAT I'M INVOLVED WITH.
WHAT A GREAT BOOK.
THANK ERIKA.
I'M GLAD TO HEAR THAT AND I'M
LOVE HEARING ABOUT CONNECTIONS
THAT HAPPEN.
IT RESONATES JUST BECAUSE THOSE
I LIKE THE BEST THINGS THAT
HAPPEN BASICALLY THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR.
IT'S MY MY FAVORITE DAYS AND
THAT ALWAYS SEEMS TO HAPPEN AND
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED I KNOW
THAT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE AT
LEAST TWO VENDORS THAT
SPECIALIZE IN LEADERS DOGS,
LEADER DOGS WILL BE THERE THIS
YEAR.
SO I'LL BE SORRY FOR YOU IF
YOU'RE LOOKING INTO OK, THEY
WON'T LET ME RAISE MY HAND.
I'M LET ME RAISE MY HAND FOR
COMMENT.
>> SO MAY I GO?
YEAH, SURE.
GO AHEAD.
OK, SO DID WE MENTION THE DATE
IS AS THE JUNE 5TH WAS THAT
MENTIONED JUNE 5TH AND ALSO
COMMISSIONER PACARD SOMEWHERE
ALONG THE LINE IF YOU WANT TO
KNOW FURTHER ABOUT LIFE WHAT
LIFE IS WITH A GUIDE DOG YOU
CAN TALK TO ME.
I HAD ONE A YEAR AND A HALF GO
EXCELLENT.
OH YEAH.
I WILL.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
I AM AVAILABLE THAT DAY SO AND
AND I WOULD ACTUALLY I WOULD
ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO GIVE YOU
MAYBE A PERSONAL RECOMMENDATION
FROM THE ONE OF THOSE SCHOOLS
ANYWAY.
>> YOU ALSO WILL TALK THANK YOU
.
AH THIS IS COMMISSIONER HAWKINS
I SHOULD BE ABLE TO ATTEND.
.
I ALREADY HAD IT ON MY CALENDAR
I SHOULD BE ABLE TO ATTEND.
SO BARRING PATIENT EMERGENCY I
I ALREADY HAD IT ON MY CALENDAR
PLAN TO BE THERE.
SO BARRING PATIENT EMERGENCY I
>> OH GREAT.
PLAN TO BE THERE.
SHOULD I ADD YOU TO THE
>> OH GREAT.
REGISTRATION WOMAN COMMISSIONER
SHOULD I ADD YOU TO THE
HAWKINS YES PLEASE DO.
REGISTRATION WOMAN COMMISSIONER
OK WE'LL DO ALL RIGHT THANK YOU
HAWKINS YES PLEASE DO.
.
OK WE'LL DO ALL RIGHT THANK YOU
ALL RIGHT.
.
ANYTHING ELSE FOR KATIE AND A
ALL RIGHT.
LIBRARIAN AT THIS TIME?
ANYTHING ELSE FOR KATIE AND A
ALL RIGHT.
LIBRARIAN AT THIS TIME?
THANKS EVERYBODY.
ALL RIGHT.
SEE YOU NEXT TIME.
THANKS EVERYBODY.
YEAH, THANK YOU SO MUCH, KATIE
SEE YOU NEXT TIME.
AND THANK YOU FOR ALL THE WORK
YEAH, THANK YOU SO MUCH, KATIE
YOU DO AND FOR THE LOVE FOR ALL
AND THANK YOU FOR ALL THE WORK
THE WORK THE LIBRARY DOES.
YOU DO AND FOR THE LOVE FOR ALL
THANK YOU.
THE WORK THE LIBRARY DOES.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO THE DISABILITY
ALL RIGHT.
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
MOVING ON TO THE DISABILITY
LIVINGSTON REPORT WITH ANDREA
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
ANDREA, GOOD AFTERNOON.
LIVINGSTON REPORT WITH ANDREA
GOOD AFTERNOON.
ANDREA, GOOD AFTERNOON.
AS PREVIEWED AND PROMISED LAST
GOOD AFTERNOON.
MONTH THIS MONTH I'D LIKE TO
AS PREVIEWED AND PROMISED LAST
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
MONTH THIS MONTH I'D LIKE TO
UPCOMING FOURTH ANNUAL NOTHING
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
ABOUT US WITHOUT US FILM
UPCOMING FOURTH ANNUAL NOTHING
FESTIVAL TAKING PLACE IN APRIL
ABOUT US WITHOUT US FILM
IS AN ONLINE VIRTUAL EVENT SO
FESTIVAL TAKING PLACE IN APRIL
YOU WILL NEED TO REGISTER TO
IS AN ONLINE VIRTUAL EVENT SO
ATTEND ANY OR ALL OF THE
YOU WILL NEED TO REGISTER TO
SESSIONS.
ATTEND ANY OR ALL OF THE
IT IS FREE AND OPEN TO ANYONE
SESSIONS.
TAKING PLACE TUESDAY APRIL 16TH
IT IS FREE AND OPEN TO ANYONE
THROUGH THURSDAY APRIL 18TH
TAKING PLACE TUESDAY APRIL 16TH
WITH A VARIETY OF SHORT FILMS
THROUGH THURSDAY APRIL 18TH
PERSONAL STORIES OF LIFE WITH A
WITH A VARIETY OF SHORT FILMS
DISABILITY.
PERSONAL STORIES OF LIFE WITH A
THERE'S A PRESENTATION THAT'S
DISABILITY.
GOING TO BE HAPPENING ON
THERE'S A PRESENTATION THAT'S
THURSDAY THE 18TH ON DISABILITY
GOING TO BE HAPPENING ON
RIGHTS AND JUSTICE.
THURSDAY THE 18TH ON DISABILITY
IT'S IN COLLABORATION WITH
RIGHTS AND JUSTICE.
DISABILITY NETWORK WASHINGTON
IT'S IN COLLABORATION WITH
MONROE LEVINGSTON AND
DISABILITY NETWORK WASHINGTON
DISABILITY NETWORK NSW MICHIGAN
MONROE LEVINGSTON AND
ARE OUR COLLEAGUES ON THE WEST
DISABILITY NETWORK NSW MICHIGAN
SIDE OF THE STATE.
ARE OUR COLLEAGUES ON THE WEST
SO ALL FILMS THAT ARE PRESENTED
SIDE OF THE STATE.
AT THIS WILL FEATURE A
SO ALL FILMS THAT ARE PRESENTED
DISABILITY THEME AND REFLECT
AT THIS WILL FEATURE A
THE VALUES OF THE INDEPENDENT
DISABILITY THEME AND REFLECT
LIVING MOVEMENT ON THE
THE VALUES OF THE INDEPENDENT
FESTIVAL.
LIVING MOVEMENT ON THE
WELL LIKE I SAID WELL IT WILL
FESTIVAL.
CONCLUDE THURSDAY AFTERNOON
WELL LIKE I SAID WELL IT WILL
WITH A CONVERSATION ON
CONCLUDE THURSDAY AFTERNOON
DISABILITY JUSTICE.
WITH A CONVERSATION ON
>> THERE IS A REGISTRATION LINK
DISABILITY JUSTICE.
AVAILABLE PROBABLY ON OUR
>> THERE IS A REGISTRATION LINK
WEBSITE AND FACEBOOK PAGE.
AVAILABLE PROBABLY ON OUR
OTHERWISE YOU CAN CERTAINLY GO
WEBSITE AND FACEBOOK PAGE.
AHEAD AND GIVE US A CALL AT
OTHERWISE YOU CAN CERTAINLY GO
SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE
AHEAD AND GIVE US A CALL AT
ZERO TWO SEVEN SEVEN ASKED
SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE
EXTENSION FIVE TWENTY FIVE TO
ZERO TWO SEVEN SEVEN ASKED
ZERO OR YOU CAN EMAIL ELLIOTT
EXTENSION FIVE TWENTY FIVE TO
CARTER AT E ELLIOTT IOT AT D
ZERO OR YOU CAN EMAIL ELLIOTT
AND W O OR AGAIN OUR FOURTH
CARTER AT E ELLIOTT IOT AT D
ANNUAL NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT
AND W O OR AGAIN OUR FOURTH
US FILM FESTIVAL APRIL 16TH
ANNUAL NOTHING ABOUT US WITHOUT
THROUGH EIGHTEEN.
US FILM FESTIVAL APRIL 16TH
>> THAT'S ALL I HAVE TODAY
THROUGH EIGHTEEN.
UNLESS ANYBODY HAS ANY
>> THAT'S ALL I HAVE TODAY
QUESTIONS.
UNLESS ANYBODY HAS ANY
>> ALL RIGHT.
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, ANDREA.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND TO THE DISABILITY NETWORK
THANK YOU SO MUCH, ANDREA.
WASHTENAW, MONROE AND
AND TO THE DISABILITY NETWORK
LIVINGSTON AND THANK YOU SO
WASHTENAW, MONROE AND
MUCH FOR MENTIONING THE NOTHING
LIVINGSTON AND THANK YOU SO
ABOUT US WITHOUT US FILM
MUCH FOR MENTIONING THE NOTHING
FESTIVAL REALLY IS AN
ABOUT US WITHOUT US FILM
OUTSTANDING AND INFORMATIVE
FESTIVAL REALLY IS AN
EVENT.
OUTSTANDING AND INFORMATIVE
I REALLY ENJOYED ATTENDING LAST
EVENT.
YEAR AND SEEING THE FILMS AND
I REALLY ENJOYED ATTENDING LAST
THEN HEARING THE THE DIALOG
YEAR AND SEEING THE FILMS AND
FROM THE DIFFERENT FILM MAKERS
THEN HEARING THE THE DIALOG
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT CONCERNS
FROM THE DIFFERENT FILM MAKERS
DISABILITY AND COLLUSION.
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT CONCERNS
SO I ENCOURAGE ALL OF US IF YOU
DISABILITY AND COLLUSION.
CAN MAKE IT TO THE NOTHING
SO I ENCOURAGE ALL OF US IF YOU
ABOUT US WITHOUT A FILM
CAN MAKE IT TO THE NOTHING
FESTIVAL TO PLEASE DO SO.
ABOUT US WITHOUT A FILM
ALRIGHT AND THANK YOU TO THE
FESTIVAL TO PLEASE DO SO.
DISABILITY NETWORK AND FOR JUST
ALRIGHT AND THANK YOU TO THE
ALL THEIR CONTINUED WORK
DISABILITY NETWORK AND FOR JUST
EFFORTS.
ALL THEIR CONTINUED WORK
>> THANK YOU.
EFFORTS.
ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
ALL RIGHT.
ACCESS COMMITTEE REPORT WITH
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
LARRY KEILLER.
ACCESS COMMITTEE REPORT WITH
WELL I'D LIKE TO THANK THE
LARRY KEILLER.
COMMISSIONER EDWIN AND
WELL I'D LIKE TO THANK THE
CO-ORDINATOR BYRD FOR FILLING
COMMISSIONER EDWIN AND
IN ON SOME OF THE ISSUES
CO-ORDINATOR BYRD FOR FILLING
BECAUSE THEY ARE THE FIRST PART
IN ON SOME OF THE ISSUES
OF OUR WASN'T THERE.
BECAUSE THEY ARE THE FIRST PART
>> BUT RACHEL ENDED UP SHOWING
OF OUR WASN'T THERE.
SO WE ENDED UP TALKING ABOUT
>> BUT RACHEL ENDED UP SHOWING
AND AND COMMISSIONER PARKER
SO WE ENDED UP TALKING ABOUT
ALSO SHOWED UP.
AND AND COMMISSIONER PARKER
>> SO THERE WAS THERE WAS AT
ALSO SHOWED UP.
THAT TIME THERE WAS NO UPDATES
>> SO THERE WAS THERE WAS AT
ON THE WC ISSUES OTHER THAN
THAT TIME THERE WAS NO UPDATES
WHAT WE HAD SET UP WITH THE
ON THE WC ISSUES OTHER THAN
THAT WE HAD HEARD FROM ONLINE
WHAT WE HAD SET UP WITH THE
FROM YOU GUYS WITH THE ADDITION
THAT WE HAD HEARD FROM ONLINE
OF THE THE PUSH BUTTON FOR A
FROM YOU GUYS WITH THE ADDITION
DOOR AND WE HAD HAD AT THAT
OF THE THE PUSH BUTTON FOR A
TIME HEARD NOTHING ABOUT THE
DOOR AND WE HAD HAD AT THAT
PARKING SPACES SO I THANK THEM
TIME HEARD NOTHING ABOUT THE
FOR THAT AND FOR UPDATING
PARKING SPACES SO I THANK THEM
SOMETHING THAT WE DIDN'T HAVE
FOR THAT AND FOR UPDATING
AND THAT WE TALKED ABOUT DOING
SOMETHING THAT WE DIDN'T HAVE
SOME MORE RESEARCH FOR THE
AND THAT WE TALKED ABOUT DOING
MICHIGAN THEATER.
SOME MORE RESEARCH FOR THE
I TRIED TO GET A HOLD OF THEM A
MICHIGAN THEATER.
COUPLE OF TIMES AND SO WE'RE
I TRIED TO GET A HOLD OF THEM A
STILL MAYBE THINKING ABOUT SOME
COUPLE OF TIMES AND SO WE'RE
OF US WANDERING ON DOWN THERE
STILL MAYBE THINKING ABOUT SOME
SOMETIME AND CHECKING OUT
OF US WANDERING ON DOWN THERE
EXACTLY WHAT THEIR
SOMETIME AND CHECKING OUT
ACCESSIBILITY HAS AND AND SO
EXACTLY WHAT THEIR
ONE OF THE THOUGHTS WAS WAS TO
ACCESSIBILITY HAS AND AND SO
HAVE A TRAVEL DEVICE AND WE GOT
ONE OF THE THOUGHTS WAS WAS TO
A TRIAL DEVICE LOAD IN THE
HAVE A TRAVEL DEVICE AND WE GOT
THEATER AND WE TALKED ABOUT
A TRIAL DEVICE LOAD IN THE
CHANGES IN, YOU KNOW, CHANGES
THEATER AND WE TALKED ABOUT
AND HOW THAT WOULD HAPPEN AS TO
CHANGES IN, YOU KNOW, CHANGES
HOW IT WOULD CHANGE
AND HOW THAT WOULD HAPPEN AS TO
ACCESSIBILITY FOR PEOPLE,
HOW IT WOULD CHANGE
PARTIAL VISION AND I'LL PASS
ACCESSIBILITY FOR PEOPLE,
MORE TO THAT TO COMMISSIONER
PARTIAL VISION AND I'LL PASS
PACKARD BECAUSE HE'S THIS WAS
MORE TO THAT TO COMMISSIONER
THE ISSUE THAT HE INTRODUCED
PACKARD BECAUSE HE'S THIS WAS
AND I THINK HE'S GOT MORE TO
THE ISSUE THAT HE INTRODUCED
SPEAK ABOUT IT THAN I DO.
AND I THINK HE'S GOT MORE TO
>> HELLO.
SPEAK ABOUT IT THAN I DO.
CAN YOU NOR AM I I KNOW I CAN
>> HELLO.
HEAR YOU.
CAN YOU NOR AM I I KNOW I CAN
>> I CAN HEAR YOU THERE YOU GO.
HEAR YOU.
YEAH, I'M ACTUALLY WEARING THE
>> I CAN HEAR YOU THERE YOU GO.
DEVICE RIGHT NOW.
YEAH, I'M ACTUALLY WEARING THE
I THOUGHT I'D PUT IT ON FOR THE
DEVICE RIGHT NOW.
WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT IT BUT
I THOUGHT I'D PUT IT ON FOR THE
IT'S MORE OF AN EXPLORATION
WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT IT BUT
OF HOW A VIEWING DEVICE LIKE
IT'S MORE OF AN EXPLORATION
WHAT I'M WEARING NOW CAN BE
OF HOW A VIEWING DEVICE LIKE
USED IN AREA THEATERS.
WHAT I'M WEARING NOW CAN BE
I'M KIND OF I THINK JUST
USED IN AREA THEATERS.
INVESTIGATING HOW DOES THE
I'M KIND OF I THINK JUST
THEATER PROVIDE ACCESSIBLE AND
INVESTIGATING HOW DOES THE
HOW CAN A VISUAL AID LIKE THIS
THEATER PROVIDE ACCESSIBLE AND
BE USED TO TELL PEOPLE WITH LOW
HOW CAN A VISUAL AID LIKE THIS
VISION AND THEN PROMOTE IT SO
BE USED TO TELL PEOPLE WITH LOW
IT'S KIND OF IN THE BEGINNING
VISION AND THEN PROMOTE IT SO
STAGES BUT WHATEVER WE CAN DO
IT'S KIND OF IN THE BEGINNING
AS A GROUP TO HELP PROMOTE
STAGES BUT WHATEVER WE CAN DO
BETTER ACCESSIBILITY IN A
AS A GROUP TO HELP PROMOTE
PUBLIC PLACE USING THIS CALLED
BETTER ACCESSIBILITY IN A
PETER LEMS I DON'T KNOW IF
PUBLIC PLACE USING THIS CALLED
THERE'S ANY LIVE PERSON THAT
PETER LEMS I DON'T KNOW IF
COULD BE PUT ON THE LINE WHO
THERE'S ANY LIVE PERSON THAT
HAS A CAMERA ON THEM RIGHT NOW
COULD BE PUT ON THE LINE WHO
I CAN DO A LITTLE DEMONSTRATION
HAS A CAMERA ON THEM RIGHT NOW
OF WHAT THIS WAS ABLE TO DO IF
I CAN DO A LITTLE DEMONSTRATION
THERE IS ANYONE WHO I CAN SEE
OF WHAT THIS WAS ABLE TO DO IF
FACE TO FACE USING THE DEVICE
THERE IS ANYONE WHO I CAN SEE
ON THE MEETING RIGHT NOW I JUST
FACE TO FACE USING THE DEVICE
SEE THE PHONE ICON THE MEETING.
ON THE MEETING RIGHT NOW I JUST
BUT BUT THIS BASICALLY HAS
SEE THE PHONE ICON THE MEETING.
ENABLED ME TO WATCH MOVIES THAT
BUT BUT THIS BASICALLY HAS
I WOULD HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO SEE
ENABLED ME TO WATCH MOVIES THAT
AT ALL AND SO WHATEVER WE CAN
I WOULD HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO SEE
DO TO MAYBE MAYBE HAVE A
AT ALL AND SO WHATEVER WE CAN
MEETING CONTACT A COMPANY THEN
DO TO MAYBE MAYBE HAVE A
KIND OF MOVE FORWARD, I COULD
MEETING CONTACT A COMPANY THEN
SCHEDULE AN EMAIL WITH A WITH
KIND OF MOVE FORWARD, I COULD
TIME WHEN WE COULD TEST IT OUT
SCHEDULE AN EMAIL WITH A WITH
AND SEE HOW IT IS USED.
TIME WHEN WE COULD TEST IT OUT
SO ANY ADVANCEMENTS I MAKE I'LL
AND SEE HOW IT IS USED.
DEFINITELY LET YOU ALL KNOW
MOVING FORWARD SO I'LL
DEFINITELY KEEP YOU ALL
INFORMED SO I MIGHT I THINK IN
TALKING WITH OTHERS WITH LOW
VISION IT SEEMS TO BE
POTENTIALLY THE NEXT STEP IN
FUTURE AND ACCESSIBILITY FOR
THOSE WITH LOW VISION SO GLAD
TO KNOW WE'VE WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT MAYBE REACHING OUT TO
ANYONE IN ACCESSABILITY OR
MANAGER WITH WITH THE AREA
THEATER SO I'M SURE IT'LL BE
IT'LL BE GREAT.
I'LL YOU KNOW ANY QUESTIONS I'M
GLAD TO ANSWER WHETHER IT'S
SOMETHING THAT COULD BE LOANED
.
I THINK IT WOULD BE REALLY NEAT
TO SEE WHO IT HELPS AND WHAT
KIND OF BENEFIT I GET OUT
OF IT.
SO YEAH, IT'S KIND OF IN THE
DISCUSSION STAGES SO BUT I'M
EXCITED ABOUT IT THOUGH AND I
THINK A LOT OF A LOT PEOPLE ARE
I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE
IMPORTANT TO GET THE WORD OUT
IF VISUAL AID DEVICE IS IN THE
THEATER.
THE PART OF THE EFFORT WOULD BE
TO LET OTHERS KNOW THAT IT IS
EVEN THERE TO BEGIN WITH.
>> SO WE'LL WE'LL TALK MORE AT
THE NEXT MEETING.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, ROB.
AND TO YOUR POINT, I AGREE.
I MEAN THAT'S VERY EXCITING AND
I THANK YOU FOR YOUR YOUR WORK
BEING A GREAT ADVOCATE FOR THAT
PARTICULAR DEVICE, THE PATRIOT
LENS AND YOU KNOW YOUR
FIRSTHAND EXPERIENCE WITH
MAKING SURE THAT YOU KNOW,
MOVIES ARE ARE VIEWABLE AND
ACCESSIBLE TO ALL AND SO YEAH,
PLEASE KEEP US POSTED ON THAT
AND YOU KNOW, I'M EXCITED TO
HEAR WHAT DIALOG CAN BE AND OH
YEAH.
AND FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH LIKE
THIS IS KIND OF WHAT THIS
DEVICE DOES FOR ME.
I KNOW I CAN SEE THAT WITHOUT
THIS DEVICE I CANNOT EVEN
REALLY SEE MY PHONE IN FRONT
OF ME BUT WEARING IT I CAN SEE
THAT THAT YOU'RE WEARING A RED
TIE, A WHITE SHIRT I THINK A
BLUE BLAZER AND YOU ARE NOT
MOVING NOW WE KIND OF DID A
THING WITH THE PARTNERS THE
NEXT MEETING WHERE ONE PERSON
WOULD HOLD OUT A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF FINGERS AND I COULD EVEN
TELL IF THEY'RE HOLDING ONE,
TWO, THREE, FOUR AND I'M I AM
BLACK AND THIS ALLOWS ME TO SEE
WHERE I COULD NOT.
SO WHEN YOU GO INTO A THEATER
IN YOUR LOW VISION WHICH IS THE
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
LEGALLY BLIND HAVE SOME VISION
LEFT, IT COULD BE A REALLY
GREAT THING.
SO I'D LIKE TO SEE PEOPLE WHO
ARE HARD OF HEARING HAVE
HEARING DEVICES AVAILABLE TO
THEM IN THEATERS AND I THINK
IT'D BE AWESOME TO MOVE FORWARD
IN A WAY TO HELP PEOPLE WHO ARE
HARD TO SEE SEE BETTER SO YEAH
,GREAT THINGS COMING UP IF YOU
CAN SEE THAT YOU'RE DOING
REALLY GOOD COMMISSIONER.
REALLY?
YEAH I JUST HAVE A QUICK
QUESTION FOR ROB IN TERMS
OF THE DEVICE.
IS THERE ANYTHING YOU NEED TO
DO TO CONFIGURE IT FOR A USER
OR IS IT LITERALLY JUST PLOP IT
ON AND AND IT WOULD BE
FUNCTIONAL FOR LOTS OF PEOPLE?
I'M JUST ASKING ABOUT LIKE IF
THERE'S A REQUEST FOR THESE
DEVICES TO BE MORE READILY
AVAILABLE, HOW EASY IS THAT
IMPLEMENTABLE ASIDE FROM
CORNWELL'S?
I WENT INTO A THEATER IN
CALIFORNIA.
I'VE BEEN GOING BACK AND FORTH
AND WITH THIS ONE THEATER I
WENT TO THEY WOULD SAY WE NEED
YOUR ID LICENSE OR STATE ID AND
YOU WOULD GIVE THAT IN EXCHANGE
FOR A DEVICE THAT WAY IT'S NOT
JUST HANDING IT OUT TO BE TAKEN
AND NOW WITH THIS DEVICE I
DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN SEE THIS
BUT THERE'S AN OFF BUTTON RIGHT
HERE.
YOU CAN SEE IT BUT THAT'S IT.
YOU TURN AND LET IT WARM UP
THEN YOU PRESS THIS DEVICE
RIGHT HERE TO ZOOM IN.
YOU JUST SWIPE FORWARD TO ZOOM
OUT, YOU SWIPE BACK.
THAT'S IT.
IT'S A HARD AS IT GETS AND BY
THE WAY SO LIKE IF YOU WANT TO
TRY SO LIKE I SAID, IF YOU
COULD JUMP BACK ON SCREEN I'M
DIRECTING NOW.
YEAH.
IF YOU WANT TO TRY THAT LIKE
LIKE I SAID I DON'T EVEN SEE MY
PHONE WITHOUT THIS BUT LIKE A
HOLD OUT A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF FINGERS AND WE'LL TRY IT
AGAIN JUST FOR FUN.
BUT YOU LOST I LOST YOU ON
SCREEN.
THERE YOU ARE.
YEAH THERE YOU GO.
YOU CAN TRY IT IF YOU YOU'RE
HOLDING THREE FINGERS.
YEAH THERE YOU GO.
SO LITERALLY IF I GO TO THE
MOVIE THEATER I CAN'T SEE THE
SCREEN WITH THIS.
I CAN WATCH THE MOVIE AND I'M
JUST REALLY CURIOUS HOW MANY
OTHER PEOPLE IN THE AREA WOULD
HAVE THAT SAME OPPORTUNITY.
I WANTED TO BE OPEN TO ALL
YEAH.
I WANT TO TRY IT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER PAXTON.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
I THINK I THINK I'M SORRY BUT
COMMISSIONER PAXTON.
LIKE I SAID IT'S NOT IT'S HARD
I THINK I THINK I'M SORRY BUT
FOR ME TO RAISE MY HAND ON THIS
LIKE I SAID IT'S NOT IT'S HARD
PHONE FOR SOME GOOFY REASON BUT
FOR ME TO RAISE MY HAND ON THIS
THE QUESTION I THOUGHT I
PHONE FOR SOME GOOFY REASON BUT
UNDERSTOOD WHEN SHE ASKED THE
THE QUESTION I THOUGHT I
QUESTION WAS IS THIS IS THIS
UNDERSTOOD WHEN SHE ASKED THE
ADJUSTABLE FOR DIFFERENT FORMS
QUESTION WAS IS THIS IS THIS
BECAUSE THERE'S SO MANY
ADJUSTABLE FOR DIFFERENT FORMS
DIFFERENT I MEAN OBVIOUSLY NO
BECAUSE THERE'S SO MANY
MATTER HOW YOU ADJUST IT, IT
DIFFERENT I MEAN OBVIOUSLY NO
AIN'T GOING TO HELP ME NONE.
MATTER HOW YOU ADJUST IT, IT
RIGHT.
AIN'T GOING TO HELP ME NONE.
BUT ADJUST FOR VARIOUS LEVELS
RIGHT.
OF SITE OR YES.
BUT ADJUST FOR VARIOUS LEVELS
>> OR RESTRICTIONS TO TRY TO
OF SITE OR YES.
GET STEREO POSITION.
>> OR RESTRICTIONS TO TRY TO
IF YOU CAN SEE THAT OUT OF ONE,
GET STEREO POSITION.
CAN YOU TRY TO ADJUST IT SO YOU
IF YOU CAN SEE THAT OUT OF ONE,
CAN SEE BETTER THE SAME OUT
CAN YOU TRY TO ADJUST IT SO YOU
OF BOTH EYES OR IS IT
CAN SEE BETTER THE SAME OUT
ADJUSTABLE OR THE LENS WORKS
OF BOTH EYES OR IS IT
OBVIOUSLY FOR FOR BOTH EYES
ADJUSTABLE OR THE LENS WORKS
IT'S NOT LIKE A MONOCULAR AND
OBVIOUSLY FOR FOR BOTH EYES
IT BRIGHTENS DARKENS AND ZOOMS
IT'S NOT LIKE A MONOCULAR AND
IN SO AND IT'S ABLE TO DO THAT
IT BRIGHTENS DARKENS AND ZOOMS
WITH THOSE MOTIONS BUT I TALKED
IN SO AND IT'S ABLE TO DO THAT
ABOUT THIS AT THE LAST MEETING
WITH THOSE MOTIONS BUT I TALKED
BUT WITH ACCORDING TO THE CDC A
ABOUT THIS AT THE LAST MEETING
MILLION PEOPLE IN AMERICA ARE
BUT WITH ACCORDING TO THE CDC A
LEGALLY BLIND BEING TWENTY TWO
MILLION PEOPLE IN AMERICA ARE
HUNDRED OR BEYOND AND NINETY
LEGALLY BLIND BEING TWENTY TWO
THREE PERCENT HAVE SOME VISION.
HUNDRED OR BEYOND AND NINETY
WHETHER IT HELPS IS OBVIOUSLY
THREE PERCENT HAVE SOME VISION.
NO DEVICE WILL WORK FOR ALL BUT
WHETHER IT HELPS IS OBVIOUSLY
IT WOULD BE REALLY NEAT TO DO
NO DEVICE WILL WORK FOR ALL BUT
LIKE A STUDY TO SEE OUT
IT WOULD BE REALLY NEAT TO DO
OF THOSE WHO ARE BLIND LOW
LIKE A STUDY TO SEE OUT
VISION, YOU KNOW WHO DOES IT
OF THOSE WHO ARE BLIND LOW
HELP AND OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN'T
VISION, YOU KNOW WHO DOES IT
SEEING TEST TO SEE WHO
HELP AND OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN'T
QUALIFIES AT THE THEATER BUT IF
SEEING TEST TO SEE WHO
SOMEONE'S HAVING TROUBLE SEEING
QUALIFIES AT THE THEATER BUT IF
IF THEY WANT SOMETHING EXTRA I
SOMEONE'S HAVING TROUBLE SEEING
THINK THIS IS TO THOSE WHO HAVE
IF THEY WANT SOMETHING EXTRA I
VISUAL DONGES WHAT HEARING AIDS
THINK THIS IS TO THOSE WHO HAVE
WERE TO THOSE WITH HEARING
VISUAL DONGES WHAT HEARING AIDS
DIFFICULTIES.
WERE TO THOSE WITH HEARING
SO OBVIOUSLY IT WON'T WORK FOR
DIFFICULTIES.
EVERYONE BUT BUT IT WILL IT CAN
SO OBVIOUSLY IT WON'T WORK FOR
ADJUST.
EVERYONE BUT BUT IT WILL IT CAN
SO THAT WOULD BE WHAT WOULD BE
ADJUST.
NEAT TO TO TO SORT OF STUDY YOU
SO THAT WOULD BE WHAT WOULD BE
KNOW, MAYBE IF THERE WAS A
NEAT TO TO TO SORT OF STUDY YOU
POSSIBLE WAY TO FILL UP MAYBE A
KNOW, MAYBE IF THERE WAS A
LITTLE FORM OUT DID IT HELP YOU
POSSIBLE WAY TO FILL UP MAYBE A
DID AND IF IT DIDN'T THEN
LITTLE FORM OUT DID IT HELP YOU
GREAT.
DID AND IF IT DIDN'T THEN
BUT MY OTHER QUESTION WOULD BE
GREAT.
MY OTHER QUESTION WOULD BE WILL
BUT MY OTHER QUESTION WOULD BE
IT BE ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE OR
MY OTHER QUESTION WOULD BE WILL
DO YOU HAVE TO HAVE A PHONE OR
IT BE ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE OR
DO YOU HAVE TO HAVE AN IPHONE
DO YOU HAVE TO HAVE A PHONE OR
VERSUS A A DIFFERENT PHONE?
DO YOU HAVE TO HAVE AN IPHONE
>> PUSHPA LIKE MY OLD PHONE?
VERSUS A A DIFFERENT PHONE?
OH NO.
>> PUSHPA LIKE MY OLD PHONE?
ALTHOUGH YOU HAVE TO HAVE A
OH NO.
PHONE AND NO PHONE.
ALTHOUGH YOU HAVE TO HAVE A
>> OK, WELL TECHNICALLY THIS
PHONE AND NO PHONE.
DEVICE HAS A PHONE WITH A
>> OK, WELL TECHNICALLY THIS
CAMERA INSIDE OF IT SO YOU
DEVICE HAS A PHONE WITH A
DON'T HAVE TO BRING YOUR OWN
CAMERA INSIDE OF IT SO YOU
PHONE.
DON'T HAVE TO BRING YOUR OWN
IT WOULD OF COURSE JUST NEED TO
PHONE.
BE CHARGED JUST LIKE ANY ANY
IT WOULD OF COURSE JUST NEED TO
ACCESSIBILITY DEVICE THAT HAS
BE CHARGED JUST LIKE ANY ANY
TO BE KEPT CHARGED WHEN NOT IN
ACCESSIBILITY DEVICE THAT HAS
USE.
TO BE KEPT CHARGED WHEN NOT IN
BUT SO KIND OF ONE OF THE
USE.
THINGS I THINK WE TALKED ABOUT
BUT SO KIND OF ONE OF THE
WITH THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
THINGS I THINK WE TALKED ABOUT
MEETING IS MAYBE REACHING OUT
WITH THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
TO THE YOU KNOW, ANY
MEETING IS MAYBE REACHING OUT
MANUFACTURER THAT MIGHT HAVE
TO THE YOU KNOW, ANY
SOMETHING AND SEEING WHAT THE
MANUFACTURER THAT MIGHT HAVE
THOUGHTS ARE.
SOMETHING AND SEEING WHAT THE
MAYBE THERE'S A DEVICE THAT
THOUGHTS ARE.
COULD BE
WILL PROMOTE IT AND
LET FOLKS KNOW SO.
>> ALL RIGHT, EVERYONE, THANK
YOU SO MUCH AND THANK YOU SO
MUCH ROB FOR YOU KNOW, JUST
INFORMING US AND THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE ABOUT THAT
DEVICE AND OF THE GREAT DIALOG
THAT YOU GUYS ARE HAVING AT
THIS TIME.
I DO HAVE TO JUMP OFF ALL
OF YOU, BUT VICE CHAIRMAN
KEELER WILL GUIDING THE MEETING
THE REST OF THE WAY HERE SEEING
AS WE'RE PRETTY MUCH YOU KNOW
ABOUT QUARTER OF THE WAY
THROUGH THE AGENDA OF LARRY.
WE'LL PICK UP WITH COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AND YOU KNOW FROM
THERE.
BUT I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY
FOR THEIR TIME.
I'M SO SORRY THAT I HAVE TO
LEAVE EARLY AT THIS PARTICULAR
TIME.
BUT THANK YOU TO THE COMMUNITY
TELEVISION NETWORK.
THANK YOU TO THE CITY OF BANABA
AND THANK YOU TO ALL OF MY
FELLOW COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE
JUST DOING AN OUTSTANDING JOB.
YOU GUYS ARE A GREAT TEAM VICE
CHAIRMAN.
>> TAKE IT AWAY.
THANK YOU.
KENNEDY NO PROBLEM.
>> NEXT WE HAVE TO GO AHEAD AND
ENGAGE IN A COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT AND I THINK THAT I
THINK COMMISSIONER HAWKINS HAS
A SIMILAR THING TO SAY ABOUT
THAT.
>> YEAH, THANK YOU, LARRY.
SO I WAS THERE WERE SOME
DISCUSSIONS IN BETWEEN OUR LAST
MEETING IN THIS ONE SO WITH
SOME ONGOING COMMUNICATION WITH
SOME OF THE STAFF WHO WERE ON
THE ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE SHOW.
SO WE ACTUALLY THERE IS A NEW
HOST, NEWER HOST CLAREMORE WHO
IS NOW STARTED WITH ANN ARBOR
INCLUSIVE LINDA EVANS IS NO
LONGER WITH THE PROGRAM.
>> SO HISTORICALLY PRODUCING
ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE.
>> SO THERE'S ALSO BEEN SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT POSSIBLE
PARTNERSHIPS AND KIND OF WHAT
THAT WOULD LOOK LIKE IF IF
THERE WERE ADDITIONAL WAYS THAT
INAUDIBLE INCLUSIVE WANTED TO
GROW SINCE IT IS CONSIDERED A
PART OF THE COMMISSION UNDER
THE COMMISSION.
>> SO THAT THAT'S KIND OF THE
BROAD OVERVIEW.
SO THE MAIN THING IS THAT JUST
SOME RECENT CHANGES AND WE'RE
ALSO TRYING TO FIGURE OUT KIND
OF WHAT THE BEST WAY IS TO HAVE
,YOU KNOW, INCREASED
INVOLVEMENT FROM AN INCLUSIVE
IN TERMS OF LIKE THE
INFORMATION THAT THEY'RE ABLE
TO PROVIDE US.
ONE THING THAT WAS DISCUSSED
WAS POSSIBLY HAVING IT KIND
OF LIKE HOW KATIE MARKOVITS
COMES LIKE EVERY OTHER MONTH,
YOU KNOW, OUR QUARTERLY REPORT
JUST SO WE CAN REMAIN INVOLVED
IN THE DISCUSSIONS THAT ARE
HAPPENING.
>> SO BUT A LOT OF THAT IS
HAPPENING BEHIND THE SCENES
THAT WE'RE WORKING ON.
BUT JUST WANT TO BRING TO THE
WHOLE COMMISSION SO WE CAN YOU
KNOW, START SOME DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT THIS.
SO NOTHING TO DECIDE TODAY BUT
I THINK IT WOULD BE GOOD TO PUT
ON FUTURE FUTURE MEETING I'M
SURE TO A LOT TO PUT THAT ON
THE NEXT ONE.
SO YEAH, YEAH I KNOW THERE I
KNOW HE WAS TALKING WITH
MELISSA BONDIE AND AND A COUPLE
OTHER PEOPLE AS WELL ABOUT
ARRANGING A TIME FOR FOR THEM
TO BE ABLE TO COME TO OUR
MEETING TO PRESENT AND ANSWER
QUESTIONS BEFORE WE CAME UP
WITH SOME KIND OF MORE LIKE
LONG TERM YOU KNOW, QUARTERLY
CHECK IN OR WHATEVER WHATEVER
WOULD SO SO I WILL WE'LL SEE
WHAT I DEFINITELY SAY ADD IT TO
THE AGENDA FOR FOR NEXT MONTH
AND WILL IS THAT CAN ALSO SPEAK
MORE TO THAT TOO WHEN WE MEET
NEXT SINCE HE WAS HE WAS ON
SOME OF THESE EMAILS AS WELL AS
COUNCILWOMAN GARCI EDWARDS.
SO THANK YOU ALL.
I APPRECIATE IT
.
>> ANY QUESTIONS FOR RACHEL
COMMISSIONER?
IT WAS IRAQI
.
>> OK THEN I GUESS IT'S ME FOR
THE RECRUITING COMMITTEE AND WE
HAVE WE HAVE DONE NOTHING.
WE'RE WAITING WE HAVE WE HAVE
DONE NOTHING MUCH BECAUSE WE
HAVE BEEN WAITING ON THE
RESPONSE FROM THE MAYOR'S
OFFICE FOR OUR POTENTIAL NEW
COMMISSIONER AND WE I THINK
THERE ALSO MAY BE A LOT OF IT'S
NOT OPEN.
IT'LL BE OPEN SOON.
BUT THAT'S ALL I KNOW ABOUT
THAT.
>> SO WE'RE CONTINUING BUT WE
HAVEN'T GOTTEN ANY APPLICATIONS
OR ANYTHING YET.
>> MR. OH AT MONDAY'S MEETING
THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL DID
APPROVE THE NEW MEMBER FOR THE
COMMISSION.
>> OKAY, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
I WATCHED THE COUNCIL MEETING
SO IT MADE IT HE MADE IT
THROUGH RIGHT.
>> SO WHAT WILL THEN HAPPEN IS
THE CITY CLERK OFFICE WILL
EMAIL ME LETTING ME KNOW THAT
HE'S BEEN APPROVING ALL THE
PAPERWORK HAS BEEN DONE AND
THEN HE WILL BE ON THE NEXT
COMMISSION MEETING
.
I GUESS WHY I'M HERE I MIGHT AS
WELL DO THE TRANSPORTATION
REPORT AS WELL AND WE WE GOT
INTO DISCUSSIONS ABOUT A LOT
OF A LOT OF STREET COMING OUR
PROJECTS ON AND ONE THAT WAS
UNDER A LOT OF DEBATE BECAUSE
IT'S GOING TO COST SOMETHING
LIKE EIGHTY SOME MILLION
DOLLARS TO DO ALL THESE AND ONE
OF THEM WAS SOMEPLACE CALLED
BORROWED AND IT RUNS BETWEEN
NEWPORT AND HERE ON IT RIVER
AND DIRT ROAD PRETTY MUCH BUT
THEY WANT TO DO STREET COMING
ON THERE FOR SOME REASON AND
THERE'S A LITTLE PUBLIC
OBJECTION TO THAT BECAUSE AT
LEAST FROM MY UNDERSTANDING
THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF RESIDENTIAL HOUSES ON THERE.
SO THEY'RE CONSIDERING IT BUT
THEY'RE NOT REALLY POSITIVE
ABOUT THAT ONE.
THERE'S OTHER MOTIONS THAT ARE
PASSING THE NEW STADIUM IN
PAULINE PARK IS ALSO UP THERE
FOR STREETCAR AND FOR SOME SOME
OTHER RECONSTRUCTION FOR BIKE
PATHS AND EVERYTHING AND
THERE'S SOME MORE PROJECTS
BEING DONE ON HERE ON RIVER
WASHTENAW AND SOME OF THE MAIN
STREETS ARE ALL GOING TO BE YOU
KNOW, THIS IS GOING TO BE THE
ORANGE SEASON COMING UP AND
THEY'RE WORKING FOR SPEED
REDUCTION AND CARBON REDUCTION
IS STILL AND THEY WANT TO PUT
LSD LIGHT INTO THE THE TRAFFIC
INSTEAD OF REGULAR TRAFFIC
LIGHTS, LSD IS LIKE ONE OF THE
ONES THAT WERE KIND OF PUT IT
UP ON JACKSON MAPLE THERE AND
THEY ALSO WANT TO MAKE THAT
LAME SKINNIER BIKE PATH AND
MAKE IT SKINNIER ON JACKSON
MAPLE THAT BETWEEN MAPLE AND
LIKE THE HIGHWAY BUT IT WILL BE
EXPENSIVE AND IT MAY AND MAY
COST EIGHTY TWO MILLION TO GET
TO OH IT MAY COST EIGHTY SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS TO GET BECAUSE
THE OTHER PROJECT THEY'RE
WORKING ON IS THEY WE WANT
CONTROL IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR WANTS TO CONTROL
WASHTENAW JACKSON AND HURON IN
PARTICULAR FROM DOTTI.
THEY WANT TO GET GET IT FROM
DOTTIE AND DOTTIE WILL HAVE TO
PUT IN A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF MONEY TO PASS IT OVER TO US
AND FIX THE FIX THE HIGHWAY TO
A CERTAIN STANDARD.
THIS WILL TAKE A FEW YEARS BUT
EVENTUALLY WHAT ALBUM WANT TO
OWN THAT CORNER THAT GOES FROM
JACKSON ROAD DOWN HERE AND UP
THROUGH WASHTENAW AND THERE
WE'RE STILL WORKING ON NEARLY
TWENTY THREE AND ADDING BIKE
LANES AND THEY ALSO WANT TO DO
WASHTENAW LIKE THAT AND ALL
THEY'RE PROMOTING ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES SO THEY WANT THEY
WANT TO DO BIKE LANES UNDER
THAT DO SOME MORE OF THE
WALKING THAT HEALTHY ROADS AND
THEY WANT TO DO SOME OTHER
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS AND LET'S
SEE WHAT ELSE WE GOT HERE.
WE GOT ONE MORE LITTLE PIECE
HERE.
I JUST PULLED IT OUT BECAUSE
OF OUR LIGHT ON IT.
>> WE HAD ABOUT AN HOUR AND A
HALF OR SO.
>> ALL OF THESE ARE TRAINS
LANES PROJECT SO THAT
COMMISSIONER CARPENTER TALKED
ABOUT I THINK HE'S A
COMMISSIONER THERE TO AND HE
WANTS TO PUT CONNECTABLE BUSSES
AND TRAINS AND I THINK THE
PROJECT IS DOING SOMETHING WITH
BUSSES AND TRAINS SO THEY CAN
GO AND ACCESS ALONG PART OF THE
EXPRESSWAY TO MAKE THEM OUT GO
QUICKER.
SO MAYBE TURN OFF ON TWENTY
THREE FOR A MINUTE AND THEN
DOWN ON ANOTHER ROAD TO
COMPLETE THE THAT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING ANYWAY AND
PUBLIC.
YEAH AND THAT'S ABOUT IT THAT'S
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED AND NOT A
WHOLE LOT ENOUGH KEEPS US IN
TUNE WITH ALL THE ROADS AND ANY
QUESTIONS
YOU KNOW NO QUESTIONS
NO COMMENTS TO READ ON THE
AGENDA ON THAT THAT WAS ME.
OH OK.
THE THEM COUNCIL ON DISABILITY
ISSUES IS NEXT.
>> WE HAVE THE REPORT.
ANYTHING FROM THERE?
I WAS COMMISSIONER EXCUSE ME.
>> I WAS UNABLE TO ATTEND THE
MEETING THIS WEEK.
I BELIEVE THAT ZACH SAID HE HAD
ATTENDED IN ANY CASE WILL BE
RECEIVING THE WRITTEN NOTES ON
THE COMMISSION APOLOGIES FOR
NOT BEING ABLE TO REPORT.
>> NOT AT THIS TIME.
YES ZACH DID ATTEND AND HE DID
SHARE THE AGENDA WITH A COUPLE
OF LINKS TO SLIDES AND
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
COMMISSION TO PROVIDE AND THAT
WAS INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA FOR
THIS WEEK.
>> I OK AND NOW WE HAVE
WE HAVE
THE ORGANIZATION FOR EQUITY
REPORT FROM COORDINATOR BURDEN
TRUTHY AND I THINK SHE ALREADY
TALKED A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SOME
OF THE STUFF AND I
THANKED HER
FOR FILLING IN SOME STUFF.
BUT GO AHEAD IF YOU GOT SOME
MORE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I DO HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME THIS
AFTERNOON.
I JUST KIND OF WANTED TO GIVE
AN UPDATE THAT YOU KNOW, I'M
NOW ON MY MY FIFTH MONTH HERE
AT THE CITY AND YOU KNOW IT IS
WHAT I'M LEARNING MORE AND MORE
IS THE VALUE OF FORMING
RELATIONSHIPS AND THAT PEOPLE
CAN'T UNDERESTIMATE THE ROLE
THAT THE ACCESSIBILITY GREENERT
THIS POSITION HAS AND HOW
IMPORTANT IT IS TO TO SPEAK
WITH PEOPLE WHO MAKE THE
DECISIONS MEETING WITH THEM BUT
ALSO ALLOWING THEM TO GET TO
KNOW ME AND HOW I CAN ASSIST
AND IN SUCCESSFULLY MEETING
THOSE COMPLIANCE GOALS AND
GOING ABOVE JUST COMPLIANCE AS
WELL.
SO I HAD SAID I HAD MET WITH A
COUPLE OF OTHER INDIVIDUALS BUT
IN ADDITION TO THAT I'VE ALSO
BEEN MEETING WITH THE SAME
HOUSING COMMISSION STAFF TO SEE
ABOUT A RELATIONSHIP OF WORKING
WITH RESIDENTS AND GETTING THEM
INVOLVED IN SOME OF SOME ISSUES
AND SOME ACCESSIBILITY ISSUES
WITH THE CITY AS WELL.
I MIGHT WANT TO ALSO SHARE AT
THIS POINT IN TIME WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HOUSING I DON'T
KNOW IF ANY ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS ACTUALLY EVER GO
TO THE WASHTENAW COUNTY BARRIER
BUSTERS MEETING.
IT IS ONE HUNDRED PLUS SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES THAT BEAT US
NOT JUST TO SAVE OUR BIRDS
WASHTENAW COUNTY BUT I DO KNOW
THERE IS A LOT AROUND HOUSING
THAT IS TALKED ABOUT AT THOSE
MEETINGS I WOULD BE HAPPY IF IT
IS APPROPRIATE TO SEND
INFORMATION IN OR AT LEAST JUST
THE LINK TO THE BARRIER BESTOR
SITE ON THE THE COUNTY'S
WEBSITE FOR THE NEXT MEETING
THERE ACTUALLY THE FOURTH
WEDNESDAY OF THE MONTH AT ONE
THIRTY IN THE AFTERNOON BUT I
CAN SEND THAT IF IT'S
APPROPRIATE.
I ALSO AM VERY EXCITED TO LET
YOU KNOW THAT WE HAVE SECURED A
I'VE SPOKEN WITH CLEAR MORE
DISABILITY NETWORK WASHINGTON
BUREAU LIVINGSTON WE ARE GOING
TO BE IN CELEBRATION OF AN
HONORING DISABILITY AWARENESS
MONTH AS WELL AS ART THE ART
FAIR IN JULY WE'RE GOING TO BE
HOSTING A ART EXHIBIT HERE AT
CITY HALL WITH THE ARTISTS THAT
GO TO DISABILITY NETWORK THAT
IS BEING PLANNED RIGHT NOW.
SO I'M EXCITED ABOUT THAT AND
WORKING WITH CLAIRE SO YOU
MIGHT SEE SOMETHING ON AND
ABOUT THAT I'M NOT SURE.
AND THEN LET ME LOOK AT MY
NOTES VERY QUICKLY.
I AM ALSO WORKING WITH
DISABILITY NETWORK TO GET A
TRAINING PROGRAM.
I DON'T KNOW IF I'VE ALLUDED TO
OR I'VE TALKED ABOUT IT IN THE
PAST BUT THE OFFICE
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY I WAS
WORKING WITH EVERY DEPARTMENT
WITHIN THE CITY TO HAVE
AMBASSADORS OR LIAISONS AND
WE'RE RIGHT NOW AT RIGHT NOW
GATHERING INFORMATION AS FAR AS
LIKE EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS AND
BOTH INTERNALLY AND EXTERNALLY.
SO I'M WORKING WITH DISABILITY
NETWORK TO COME WITH SOME
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES TO TRAIN
CITY STAFF ON ACCESSIBILITY AND
DISABILITY AWARENESS ISSUES.
SO RIGHT NOW THAT IS ALL I
HAVE.
I HAVE A LITTLE BIT MORE BUT I
COULD TALK ALONG IN MEETINGS
ALREADY I GOT ON SO THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR COORDINATOR
BERNARD WITH THE COUNCIL
MEMBER?
SORRY.
SORRY THAT'S MY KIDS.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR THOSE AMAZING UPDATES AND
I'LL PROBABLY TOUCH BASE WITH
YOU SO I CAN SHARE SOME OF THAT
INFORMATION.
>> THE NEXT COUNCIL MEETING.
BUT THOSE EFFORTS I'M REALLY
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
YOU ARE VERY WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
OK SO WE ALREADY DID THAT.
THE CITY COUNCIL SO NOW WE HAVE
THE REPORT AND I KNOW YOU'RE
DEALING WITH SOMETHING, LARRY.
>> WE SKIP THE CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT.
I READ THAT.
OH NO.
I SEE.
YEAH I WAS DOING THIS ON
COMPUTER WITH THE VOICE SO I
JUST MISSED IT.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
SO LET'S DO THAT ONE CITY
PERSONNEL REPORT ALREADY SO I
JUST PLEASE TO YOU THAT THE NEW
AND OUR POLICE CHIEF IS
PLANNING TO INTENDANT UPCOMING
COMMISSION MEETING.
THE POLICE CHIEF WOULD LIKE TO
COME AND DO A BRIEF
INTRODUCTION TO THE COMMISSION,
MORE DETAILS AND INFORMATION
WILL COME.
I'M WORKING WITH HIS ASSISTANT
TO GET HIM SCHEDULE EITHER FOR
THE MEETING NEXT MONTH OR A
MEETING IN MAY.
BUT I WILL LET EVERYONE KNOW AS
WE GET THE DETAILS FINALIZED
AND THAT IS THE ONLY UPDATE AND
REPORT THAT I HAVE AT THIS TIME
.
OK, YOU CAN'T KENNEDY FOR THAT
AND OF COURSE THE NEXT THING
WAS THE REPORTS AND I KNOW THE
CHAIR HAD TO LEAVE SO ASK DID
HE GIVE ANYONE ANYONE HIS
REPORT OR NO WEE DOING THAT?
>> YEP.
HE'LL PROBABLY JUST DO IT NEXT
MONTH.
HE GAVE NO REPORT.
>> THAT'S WHAT I WAS FIGURE HAD
HAVE ANY ANY OLD BUSINESS.
THERE WAS NO BUSINESS ON THE
AGENDA.
>> DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY OLD
BUSINESS FOR THE COMMISSION
SAYING NONE OF OLD BUSINESS AND
OLD BUSINESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WOULD THERE BE ANY NEW BUSINESS
FOR THE COMMISSION?
>> THERE WAS NO NEW WE HAVE NOT
LISTED WE HAVE NOT LISTED HERE
BUT IF ANYBODY HAS SOMETHING TO
BRING UP UNDER NEW BUSINESS,
THIS WOULD BE THE TIME DENHA WE
HAVE NO NEW COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS, DID YOU HAVE SOMETHING
?
>> YES, I JUST WANTED TO SAY
THAT FOR NEXT MONTH WOULD IT
MAKE SENSE TO PUT THE
NARBOROUGH INCLUSIVE DISCUSSION
UNDER NEW BUSINESS OR WOULD IT
BE UNDER MY REPORT BECAUSE I
THINK WE'VE KIND OF REACHED THE
LIMIT OF WHAT WE CAN DO WITHOUT
HAVING ZACH ALSO SINCE I THINK
THERE'S INFORMATION HE HAS THAT
I DON'T HAVE I WOULD DO SO JUST
A QUICK QUESTION.
WOULD YOU BE PRESENTING OR
WOULD SOMEONE FROM THE NRA
INCLUSIVE BE PRESENTING?
>> IT WOULD PROBABLY BE
PRESENTING THE INFORMATION THAT
WE FELT LIKE WE CAN PUT IT
UNDER COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT IF
YOU ALSO WOULD LIKE ME TO PUT
ON IT WHATEVER YOU PREFER BUT
IT'LL BE ON THE AGENDA FOR NEXT
MONTH FOR SURE.
>> OK, PERFECT THANKS.
>> I SAID I THINK WHAT WE WOULD
I THINK WHAT WOULD BE BEST TO
DO IS PUT IT UNDER UNDER
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND THEN
IF THERE WAS ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION AND WE NEEDED TO
DISCUSS A LITTLE MORE WE COULD
PUT ON A NEW BUSINESS TO JUST
MOVE IT.
THE THAT THERE WAS EXTRA
DISCUSSION WE WANT TO GET GET
THE REPORTS DONE COULD PUT THE
REST ON MAKE AN AMENDMENT TO
PUSH IT A NEW BUSINESS.
OK, SOUNDS GOOD TO ME LARRY.
THANK YOU ANYMORE NEW BUSINESS
ANY COMMUNICATIONS I DO HAVE
ONE I FORGOT TO MENTION UNDER
MY REPORT THAT IF YOU IF YOU
ARE NEEDING TO KNOW ANYTHING
MORE ABOUT WHAT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION IS
DOING AND WHERE THEY'RE GOING
TO BE IMPROVING THE APPROVING
OR CHANGING CHANGING ROAD
CONDITIONS OR SIDEWALK
CONDITIONS FOR THE BETTER OR
WORSE.
>> TUNE IN AT 7:00.
THEY'RE ON CTM AND IN THE
REPORT THERE'S PROBABLY THE I
WOULD IMAGINE THERE'S THE PHONE
NUMBER TO CALL IN PUBLIC.
I THINK IT'S PROBABLY IN THE
REPORT THAT DETACHED BUT YOU
CAN LISTEN YOU CAN CALL IN AND
SEE WHAT THEY'RE DOING THIS
EVENING.
I'M GOING TO BE THERE TILL
PROBABLY NINE NINE THIRTY
ANYMORE COMMUNICATIONS THROWS
ANITA I HAVE ONE TO MORROW.
SEVEN THIRTY IS THE RENTERS
COMMISSION MEETING.
SO IF YOU WANT TO SEE WHAT THE
RENTERS COMMISSION IS GETTING
UP TO THEN PLEASE JOIN US.
>> IT'S WHY WE ONLY NEED TO
ASSUME AND IF YOU KNOW SOMEONE
WITH DISABILITY OTHER
COMMISSIONS HAVE OPEN SEATS AND
IT'D BE A GOOD IDEA BECAUSE A
LOT OF DECISIONS ARE BEING MADE
THAT DON'T NECESSARILY INCLUDE
OUR VOICES
THAT THAT ANY OTHER
ANNOUNCEMENTS
?
WELL NEXT I WOULD CALL I WOULD
BE IN FAVOR OF CALL.
I HAVE A CALL SOMEONE CALL OUT
FOR A MOTION TO ADJOURN THIS
YEAR MEETING I MOVE TO ADJOURN.
IT'S ROSS ANITA, THIS IS
KATHLEEN, OUR SECOND MEETING IS
ADJOURNED AND AND YOU ALL ENJOY
YOUR EVENING AND WE WILL BE
TALKING DURING THE MONTH.
I'M SURE.
THANKS FOR SHOWING UP.
I HAVE A GOOD ONE RECORDING
STOPPED